---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2023-12-06 09:03:32 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-12-06.mp3
summary: "Companies Lag in Protecting Whistleblowers, Japan-ASEAN Cooperation Strengthened, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for December 6th, 2023."
duration: "187"
length: "03:07"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "8"
weather_sapporo_description: "Sunny"
weather_sapporo_image: "sunny.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "16"
weather_tokyo_description: "Sunny"
weather_tokyo_image: "sunny.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "15"
weather_nagoya_description: "Sunny"
weather_nagoya_image: "sunny.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "14"
weather_osaka_description: "Sunny"
weather_osaka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "16"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Sunny"
weather_fukuoka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "22"
weather_naha_description: "Partly cloudy"
weather_naha_image: "cloudy1.png"

proverb_id: "35"
proverb_ja: "聞くは一時の恥聞かぬは一生の恥"
proverb_hiragana: "きくはいっときのはじきかぬはいっしょうのはじ"
proverb_en: "Asking may be a moment of shame, but not asking and remaining ignorant is a lifetime of shame; better to ask soon."
proverb_lit: "Asking is a moment's shame, not asking is a lifetime's shame."

currency_usd: "147.1"
currency_gbp: "185.5"
currency_eur: "159.2"
currency_cad: "108.2"
currency_aud: "96.5"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231206/k10014279081000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231206/k10014279151000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231206/k10014279171000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231206/k10014279071000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231206/k10014279301000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231205/k10014279211000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231205/k10014278901000.html"

news_story_title1: "「公益通報者保護制度」対応している企業 2割以下にとどまる"
news_story_title2: "東南アジア各国と連携強化へ 海上保安庁 海洋監視ノウハウ指導"
news_story_title3: "米軍統治下の奄美大島 カラー映像発見 大島紬の製造工程を撮影"
news_story_title4: "年末年始の旅行見通し コロナ感染拡大前の約95％の水準に回復"
news_story_title5: "安倍派議員の秘書らを任意聴取 東京地検特捜部"
news_story_title6: "国立大学法人法の改正案 大学教授や学生らが反対集会 廃案訴え"
news_story_title7: "愛知 安城 工場兼住宅で火事1人死亡 工場経営の男性連絡取れず"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on December 6th, 2023. In today's news, a survey conducted by a private credit research company revealed that less than 20% of companies have implemented the whistleblower protection system. This comes after the recent insurance fraud issue at the used car sales company 'Big Motor' highlighted the inadequacies of the system. The survey, which targeted over 27,000 companies nationwide, found that only a small percentage have taken measures to support whistleblowers.

Moving on to international news, the Japan Coast Guard has conducted a training program in Indonesia to enhance cooperation with the maritime authorities of Southeast Asian countries. Given the importance of the maritime traffic routes in Southeast Asia to Japan, this initiative aims to strengthen coordination and share expertise in maritime surveillance.

In other news, a rare color footage documenting the manufacturing process of Amami Oshima Tsumugi, a traditional textile that was a major industry in the Amami Islands under US military occupation after World War II, has been discovered in New York State. Experts have praised the footage for its significant historical value, as it showcases the manufacturing process that supported the island's economy.

As the COVID-19 situation improves with the transition to the fifth category, travel during the upcoming year-end and New Year holidays is expected to recover to approximately 95% of pre-pandemic levels. With the easing of travel restrictions, people are once again planning domestic and international trips, signaling a positive trend for the tourism industry.

Moving on to political news, the Tokyo District Public Prosecutor's Office's special investigation department has voluntarily questioned secretaries of members affiliated with the Abe faction, the largest faction within the Liberal Democratic Party. This comes as part of an ongoing investigation into political funding parties and suspicions of kickbacks. It is believed that some members of the Abe faction received kickbacks amounting to tens of millions of yen, and the special investigation department is currently examining the flow of funds.

In a separate development, a protest rally was held in Tokyo against the proposed amendment to the National University Corporation Act, which includes the mandatory establishment of an 'operational policy conference' for large national universities. The attendees, including university professors and students, voiced their opposition, expressing concerns that the amendment could infringe upon academic freedom.

Lastly, a fire broke out in a factory-residence in Anjo, Aichi, resulting in one fatality. The 64-year-old male owner of the factory is currently unaccounted for, and authorities are working to confirm his identity. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be partly cloudy with a high of 16°C and a low of 10°C. There is a 72% chance of rain and a UV index of 3.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
