---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News - 2023-10-03"
date: 2023-10-03 07:59:47 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-10-03.mp3
summary: "Typhoon Approaching Okinawa and Child Pornography Scandal: Japan Daily News Headlines, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for October 3rd, 2023."
duration: "136"
length: "02:16"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"
---

### Transcript

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on October 3rd, 2023. In today's news, we have two significant stories coming out of Japan.

First, a powerful typhoon, Typhoon 14, is expected to approach the Okinawa prefecture's remote islands on the 5th of October. Residents are advised to be cautious of high waves and strong winds.

Moving on to our second story, two former instructors from the prestigious cram school, Yotsuya Otsuka, have been arrested for conspiring to secretly film underage students. The police have discovered a history of shared child pornography images on their smartphones. The Metropolitan Police Department suspects that the instructors planned and executed the filming with prior knowledge of each other's sexual interests. They are currently investigating the details of the incident.

In other news, the talent agency Johnny's Jimusho has announced that it will change its name to 'SMILE-UP.' in light of the sexual assault allegations against its late founder, Johnny Kitagawa. The agency will also begin compensating the victims starting from November.

Next, various companies across Japan held acceptance ceremonies for their future employees, who are set to join next spring. Yamaha, the musical instrument manufacturer based in Hamamatsu City, took a casual approach to the event, encouraging participants to attend in casual attire instead of suits.

In a more historical context, Emperor Naruhito, Empress Masako, and their daughter Princess Aiko visited an exhibition that reflects on the activities of the Japanese Red Cross Society during the Great Kanto Earthquake 100 years ago.

Furthermore, September has seen unusually high temperatures in Japan. The average temperature for the month has exceeded the normal range by over 2 degrees. This follows a scorching summer and makes it the hottest September in the 125-year history of meteorological statistics.

Lastly, the Nagoya Railway organized a special event for its newly accepted employees. They were given the opportunity to ride in a chartered train car to deepen their understanding of the routes, particularly those expected to see an increase in inbound passengers from the airport in the future.   And that's all for today's news. Thanks for listening to Japan Daily News.
