---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News - 2023-05-12"
date: 2023-05-12 08:02:56 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-05-12.mp3
summary: "Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare plans to expand online interviews for unemployment benefits, WHO announces the end of emergency declaration for Monkeypox, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for May 12th, 2023."
duration: "78"
length: "01:18"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"
---

### Transcript

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on May 12th, 2023. The Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare plans to expand online interviews for unemployment benefits to improve convenience for those who lost their jobs. Chiba prefecture experienced an earthquake with a seismic intensity of 5 strong, causing injuries and damage to buildings. Ishikawa prefecture continues to experience strong earthquakes with seismic intensity of 6 strong, and the Meteorological Agency is calling for continued caution. WHO has announced the end of the emergency declaration for Monkeypox due to a decrease in the number of infected people. A middle school teacher who was arrested on suspicion of murder was found to have a mask with blood stains believed to be his own at the scene. Johnny's Jimusho has announced that they will provide an official statement regarding the recent allegations against former president Johnny Kitagawa this weekend. The Tokyu Toyoko Line and Meguro Line have resumed operations after being suspended due to lightning damage to signal equipment, affecting approximately 167,000 people. In Yamagata, six people were hospitalized after a two-car accident in a tunnel on a national highway, involving young men and women who were conscious.  And that's all for today's news. Thanks for listening to Japan Daily News.
