---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News - 2023-05-13"
date: 2023-05-13 07:57:34 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-05-13.mp3
summary: "Four injured in Fukui factory fire, weather agency warns of unstable atmospheric conditions in western Japan, Kawasaki's Asao Ward has the longest life expectancy in the country, Kansai Electric Power Company announces disciplinary measures after customer information breach, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for May 13th, 2023."
duration: "83"
length: "01:23"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"
---

### Transcript

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on May 13th, 2023. A factory fire in Fukui injured four people, while the weather agency warns of unstable atmospheric conditions in western Japan with thunderstorms, strong gusts, and sudden heavy rain. Kawasaki's Asao Ward has the longest life expectancy in the country, according to a survey by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. Kansai Electric Power Company has announced disciplinary measures, including cutting executive salaries, and reforms to its customer information management system after employees accessed a competitor's information illegally. The International Atomic Energy Agency officials visited Japan's environment minister to discuss the demonstration project for recycling decontaminated soil. Meanwhile, the World Health Organization has ended the declaration of a global public health emergency for monkeypox, but cases have increased in Japan this year. In Ishikawa, the government's earthquake research committee has warned that the active seismic activity in the Noto Peninsula will continue, and people should be cautious of tsunamis as well. Lastly, in Saga City, three elementary school children sustained minor injuries after being hit by a car driven by a 70-year-old man while they were walking home.  And that's all for today's news. Thanks for listening to Japan Daily News.
