---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News - 2023-08-25"
date: 2023-08-25 08:08:32 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-08-25.mp3
summary: "Dangerous Heatwave Expected in Several Regions, and British National Appeals Extradition in ¥100 Million Jewelry Theft Case, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for August 25th, 2023."
duration: "139"
length: "02:19"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"
---

### Transcript

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on August 25th, 2023. In today's news, temperatures are set to rise across the country, with dangerous heatwaves expected in several regions. Niigata, Fukushima, Yamagata, and Akita prefectures are forecasted to reach a scorching 38 degrees Celsius. Even in Tokyo's city center, temperatures are expected to reach 35 degrees Celsius. It is advised to stay hydrated and take precautions against heatstroke.

Moving on to our next story, in a case dating back 8 years, a British national is appealing his extradition to Japan in a ¥100 million jewelry theft case. The British court has ruled against his extradition, but local prosecutors have filed an appeal in response to the Japanese government's request.

Now, let's turn our attention to the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant. Following the government's decision, Tokyo Electric Power Company has begun releasing diluted treated water containing tritium and other radioactive substances into the sea. Samples of seawater will be collected in the surrounding area for analysis, and the results will be announced this afternoon.

Continuing with the topic of the water release, the Ministry of the Environment has announced that it will collect seawater samples at 11 locations off the coast of Fukushima Prefecture to analyze the concentration of radioactive materials. The analysis results are scheduled to be released on the morning of the 27th.

In other news, a cargo ship registered in Japan and a Liberian-flagged cargo ship collided in the Kii Strait off the coast of Wakayama Prefecture late last night. The Japanese cargo ship capsized, and while three of the five crew members have been rescued, the whereabouts of the remaining two are still unknown. The Japan Coast Guard is currently conducting a search and rescue operation.

Lastly, a typhoon, named Typhoon 10, has formed in the vicinity of Minamitori Island early this morning. There is a possibility that it will approach the Izu Islands around the evening of the 27th. Please stay updated on the latest information regarding the typhoon. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be partly cloudy with a high of 28 degrees Celsius and a low of 27 degrees Celsius.  And that's all for today's news. Thanks for listening to Japan Daily News.
