---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News - 2023-08-08"
date: 2023-08-08 07:47:51 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-08-08.mp3
summary: "Typhoon 6 Approaching Kyushu and Amami, and Workers Hospitalized in Sapporo Parking Lot, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for August 8th, 2023."
duration: "145"
length: "02:25"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"
---

### Transcript

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on August 8th, 2023. In today's news, Typhoon 6 is currently moving northward over the sea east of Amami City in Kagoshima Prefecture. It is expected to continue northward over the sea west of Kyushu, with the possibility of a 'linear precipitation band' forming in southern Kyushu and the Amami region on the night of the 9th. This could result in successive development of cumulonimbus clouds. On Thursday, the 10th, there is a possibility of record-breaking heavy rain, exceeding one month's worth of rainfall for this time of year, along the Pacific coast of western and eastern Japan. The Japan Meteorological Agency advises residents to take early precautions. Moving on to other news, 11 workers were hospitalized due to suspected carbon monoxide poisoning in a parking lot near JR Sapporo Station. The workers were carrying out wall replacement work and complained of feeling unwell. However, all of them are conscious and in stable condition. The police and fire department suspect carbon monoxide poisoning due to the use of a generator at the site. In a tragic incident, a collision between a taxi and a motorcycle on a national road in Kitakyushu City resulted in the death of a male university student who was riding the motorcycle. Another female passenger on the motorcycle is currently in an unconscious state. As the temperature continues to rise, Niigata Prefecture is expected to reach a dangerous heat of 38 degrees Celsius today. Please take precautions against heatstroke, even indoors. In other news, the Japanese government plans to begin releasing diluted treated water from the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant into the ocean later this month or early next month. Prime Minister Kishida acknowledges that trust with the fishing industry has gradually deepened and intends to continue providing detailed explanations to seek understanding. Lastly, following the arrest of a male member of the Nihon University American Football Team for possession of marijuana and stimulant drugs, the Kanto Collegiate American Football Association has established a 'disciplinary committee' to investigate the facts and discuss penalties. That's all for today's news. Thank you for listening. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, there will be a high of 29°C with a low of 28°C. Expect moderate or heavy rain showers throughout the day.  And that's all for today's news. Thanks for listening to Japan Daily News.
