---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2023-11-24 07:49:42 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-11-24.mp3
summary: "Japanese Escort Ship Accident: Former Captain and Two Others to Be Investigated | Snowstorm Warning for Northern Japan, Hokuriku, and Niigata, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for November 24th, 2023."
duration: "178"
length: "02:58"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "2"
weather_sapporo_description: "Heavy snow"
weather_sapporo_image: "snowy.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "21"
weather_tokyo_description: "Sunny"
weather_tokyo_image: "sunny.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "16"
weather_nagoya_description: "Partly cloudy"
weather_nagoya_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "16"
weather_osaka_description: "Sunny"
weather_osaka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "12"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Cloudy"
weather_fukuoka_image: "cloudy2.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "23"
weather_naha_description: "Partly cloudy"
weather_naha_image: "cloudy1.png"

proverb_id: "21"
proverb_ja: "馬の耳に念仏"
proverb_hiragana: "うまのみみにねんぶつ"
proverb_en: "Speaking to deaf ears; futile advice."
proverb_lit: "A Buddhist prayer in a horse's ear."

currency_usd: "149.5"
currency_gbp: "187.6"
currency_eur: "162.9"
currency_cad: "109.1"
currency_aud: "97.9"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231124/k10014267361000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231124/k10014267401000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231124/k10014267201000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231123/k10014267191000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231123/k10014266971000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231123/k10014267331000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231123/k10014267251000.html"

news_story_title1: "山口県沖の護衛艦事故 当時の艦長ら3人を近く書類送検へ"
news_story_title2: "北日本・北陸・新潟 暴風雪に警戒 あすにかけて荒れた天気に"
news_story_title3: "2026年導入の新マイナカード 性別の記載やめる方向 デジタル庁"
news_story_title4: "Kアリーナ横浜で女性刺される 傷害疑いで逃げた人物の行方捜査"
news_story_title5: "軽乗用車と大型トラック衝突 8歳女児と母親が重体 熊本 菊池"
news_story_title6: "JR中央・総武線 運転再開"
news_story_title7: "JR中央・総武線各駅停車 運転見合わせ 阿佐ヶ谷駅で人身事故"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on November 24th, 2023. In our first news story, an investigation is underway regarding an accident involving a Japanese escort ship off the coast of Yamaguchi Prefecture. The incident occurred in January when the ship ran aground in the Seto Inland Sea and became unable to navigate. It was eventually towed by a civilian vessel after five days. The Japan Coast Guard has decided to send documents to the former captain and two others involved, suspecting them of negligence resulting in potential danger to maritime traffic.

Moving on to our next story, residents in northern Japan, Hokuriku, and Niigata are advised to be cautious due to an approaching snowstorm. The influence of a low-pressure system and a front has caused unstable atmospheric conditions, leading to the development of rain clouds in localized areas. From the afternoon of the 24th to the 25th, a winter-type pressure configuration is expected to strengthen, bringing strong winds and the possibility of snowfall to the Japan Sea side of northern Japan, Hokuriku, and Niigata. Authorities are warning of potential impacts such as severe winds, high waves, blizzards, and traffic disruptions caused by snowdrifts.

In other news, the Digital Agency is considering removing gender information from the new My Number cards, which are planned to be introduced in 2026. This consideration is being made to accommodate sexual minorities, and the agency aims to finalize the specifications by the end of this year.

In Yokohama, a woman was stabbed at the K Arena, a music facility located in the Minato Mirai area. The incident occurred yesterday evening, and the victim, a woman in her 40s, sustained injuries to her abdomen from a sharp object. The police are investigating the whereabouts of the suspect who fled the scene and gathering more details about the incident.

A serious collision between a compact car and a large truck has left an 8-year-old girl and her mother in critical condition in Kumamoto's Kikuchi City. The family of four was traveling in the compact car when it collided with the truck. The father also suffered severe injuries, and the girl's elementary school-aged brother sustained injuries as well. The police are conducting a thorough investigation into the circumstances of the accident.

In transportation news, the JR Chuo-Sobu Line has resumed operation. Earlier today, train services between Mitaka and Nakano stations were temporarily suspended due to a personal accident at Asagaya Station in Suginami Ward, Tokyo. However, as of 9:15 PM, train operations have returned to normal.

And that's all for today's news. Thank you for joining us on Japan Daily News. Stay tuned for more updates. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be sunny with a maximum temperature of 21°C and a minimum temperature of 13°C.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
