---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News - 2023-08-21"
date: 2023-08-21 08:04:24 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-08-21.mp3
summary: "New Alzheimer's Drug Approved for Review and Heatwave Continues in Japan, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for August 21st, 2023."
duration: "141"
length: "02:21"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"
---

### Transcript

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on August 21st, 2023. The Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare in Japan is holding a committee meeting today to review a new drug for Alzheimer's disease called 'Recanemab'. Developed jointly by pharmaceutical companies in Japan and the United States, this drug directly targets and removes the substances that cause Alzheimer's disease. If approved, it will be the first drug of its kind to be manufactured and sold domestically.

As the heatwave continues in Japan, the western and eastern regions are expected to experience dangerously high temperatures today. Kyoto City is forecasted to reach a maximum temperature of 38 degrees Celsius. It is important to be cautious of heatstroke and take necessary measures such as checking the 'heat index' and avoiding physical activities.

New documents have been discovered that reveal the involvement of the Vatican in the repatriation of Japanese people who were detained overseas after World War II. These diplomatic documents indicate that the Vatican, located in the heart of Rome, played a role in facilitating the repatriation. Experts consider this a significant finding in the history of repatriation of Japanese individuals.

In the waters near the Senkaku Islands in Okinawa, four ships from the Chinese Coast Guard that had been intruding into Japanese territorial waters since August 18th have finally left the area. The Japan Coast Guard continues to monitor and warn against any further incursions.

Tragic accidents have occurred in Miyagi and Ibaraki prefectures. In Miyagi's Kesennuma City, a collision between a bus and a bicycle resulted in the death of a woman in her 70s. In Ibaraki's Tsukuba City, a 4-year-old boy was fatally hit by a car in his family's parking lot, which also serves as an auto repair shop.

In preparation for the upcoming 100th anniversary of the Great Kanto Earthquake, a memorial event was held in Tokyo's Sumida Ward. The event aimed to commemorate the victims of the earthquake and raise awareness of disaster prevention. The ceremony featured the lighting of bamboo lanterns to symbolize prayers and remembrance. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be sunny with a high of 28°C and a low of 27°C.  And that's all for today's news. Thanks for listening to Japan Daily News.
