---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News - 2023-09-01"
date: 2023-09-01 07:59:13 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-09-01.mp3
summary: "Disaster Preparedness Training for Tokyo Earthquake and Investigation on High Levels of PFAS Detected, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for September 1st, 2023."
duration: "149"
length: "02:29"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"
---

### Transcript

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on September 1st, 2023. Today is 'Disaster Prevention Day' in Japan. The government's comprehensive disaster preparedness training for this year began after 7 am, simulating a major earthquake directly beneath Tokyo that causes extensive damage in the southern Kanto region. The training aims to confirm the initial response procedures by the government.

In various locations, high concentrations of the harmful organic fluorine compound 'PFAS' have been detected in rivers and groundwater, causing concerns among residents. In response, the Ministry of the Environment plans to intensify research on the health effects of PFAS.

Typhoon No. 11 is expected to approach the Yaeyama Islands in Okinawa from the south and move westward, reaching a significant proximity on the 3rd of September. It is advised to take early precautions and preparedness measures in anticipation of the typhoon's approach.

Extreme heat continues to be a threat, with temperatures expected to reach 38 degrees Celsius in Tohoku and Niigata prefectures. It is crucial to take precautions against heatstroke and ensure regular hydration.

Over 2,000 food items are expected to see price increases this month, marking the second consecutive month of fewer items compared to the same period last year. While the decrease in the number of items is expected to continue until the end of the year, there is speculation that price increases may be carried over to next year due to rising logistics costs.

Due to the ongoing heat and water shortage, extensive damage has been reported in rice fields, particularly in areas such as Yurihonjo City in Akita Prefecture. The scale of the damage is estimated to be equivalent to at least 15 Tokyo Domes, and further investigation is being conducted by the local JA.

Today marks 100 years since the Great Kanto Earthquake, which claimed the lives of over 100,000 people. Experts emphasize the importance of learning from the lessons of disaster prevention and recovery, as the Great Kanto Earthquake serves as a reminder of the various disasters and damages that can occur during an earthquake. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be partly cloudy with a maximum temperature of 28°C and a minimum temperature of 27°C. There is a 10% chance of rain.  And that's all for today's news. Thanks for listening to Japan Daily News.
