---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News - 2023-10-08"
date: 2023-10-08 08:27:33 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-10-08.mp3
summary: "Record-breaking Rain Recovery Efforts Continue | Heavy Rain Warning for Kanto and Izu Islands, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for October 8th, 2023."
duration: "158"
length: "02:38"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_maxtemp: "21"
weather_description: "Light rain"
weather_image: "rainy1.png"

proverb_id: "79"
proverb_ja: "情けは人の為ならず"
proverb_hiragana: "なさけはひとのためならず"
proverb_en: "Kindness is rewarded."
proverb_lit: "Kindness is not for the sake of others."
---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on October 8th, 2023. It has been one month since the record-breaking heavy rain caused extensive damage in Chiba and Ibaraki prefectures. Despite ongoing recovery efforts, the restoration of homes and infrastructure in severely affected areas such as Mobara City in Chiba and northern Ibaraki is still a long way off. Local governments are providing support to facilitate the rebuilding of lives.

In other news, the Kanto region and Izu Islands are bracing for heavy rain tomorrow, October 9th, due to the influence of a front. The Japan Meteorological Agency has issued warnings regarding the potential for flooding, landslides, and increased river levels. Residents are urged to exercise caution, especially in low-lying areas.

Moving on to a crime report, two individuals, including the president of a cemetery management company, have been arrested in connection with the murder of a Buddhist priest in Adachi Ward, Tokyo. It is believed that the suspects entered the temple with charcoal briquettes, set them on fire, and then left after approximately 30 minutes. The investigation has revealed that the suspects placed the charcoal briquettes and gasoline in the ossuary and crematorium.

In response to the shortage of personnel in the Self-Defense Forces, the Ministry of Defense has decided to raise the retirement age in eleven ranks. This measure aims to ensure that individuals capable of handling advanced defense equipment can continue to serve for an extended period.

Tragedy struck on Mount Asahi in Tochigi Prefecture, where four individuals lost their lives. According to a witness who was with one of the victims, the weather suddenly deteriorated, with strong winds forcing them to crawl on all fours. The police are investigating the incident as a mountaineering accident caused by the sudden change in weather conditions.

In international news, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries has suspended the import of uncooked French products such as foie gras due to the vaccination of ducks against avian influenza in France. Japan does not allow the import of uncooked meat from countries where vaccination against avian influenza is practiced. The ministry has not yet set a date for the resumption of imports.

Lastly, the train service on the JR Musashino Line, which had been suspended due to a fatal accident between Higashi-Kawaguchi Station in Kawaguchi City, Saitama Prefecture, and Higashi-Urawa Station in Saitama City, has resumed as of 12:39 AM today.   And that's all for today's news. Thanks for listening to Japan Daily News.
