---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News - 2023-04-30"
date: 2023-04-30 08:20:32 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-04-30.mp3
summary: "16 areas across Japan selected for 'decarbonization advanced areas', Tokyo Bay Ferry suspends operations, a new kit to detect drugs in the body, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for April 30th, 2023."
duration: "134"
length: "02:14"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"
---

### Transcript

Welcome to Japan Daily News on April 30th. Let's start with some news headlines for today.

First, 16 regions across Japan have been selected as "decarbonization advanced areas" to promote efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to virtually zero. These regions include Matsue City's tourist area and tomato production areas in Kochi Prefecture.

Next, due to strong winds and waves, the Tokyo Bay Ferry service has suspended operations from its first departure at 6:20 am from Kurihama in Yokosuka, Kanagawa Prefecture, and 6:15 am from Kanaya in Futtsu, Chiba Prefecture. The resumption of services will depend on the sea conditions.

The Tokyo Metropolitan Police Department has newly deployed a kit that can quickly detect drugs remaining in the body to help expedite the arrest of suspects in cases such as sexual crimes involving drugs-laced drinks.

The recovery of the helicopter that crashed off the coast of Miyako Island in Okinawa Prefecture will be carried out by a private workboat, and it is expected to be completed as early as today, the 30th.

In another news story, three robbers broke into a jewelry store in the Omotesando district of Tokyo on the night of the 29th, threatening the staff with a knife and stealing cash and rings. The same store was also targeted in August of last year, and the Tokyo Metropolitan Police Department is investigating the whereabouts of the three robbers as part of a robbery case.

A contest was held in Tokyo, where students from national colleges of technology across Japan proposed new businesses that combine manufacturing technology and artificial intelligence (AI) to solve social issues.

On the 29th, a charter plane carrying 48 Japanese nationals and their families who had evacuated from Sudan, Africa, due to the continuing deterioration of the situation, arrived at Haneda Airport.

Finally, the Golden Week holiday has begun in Japan, and traffic congestion has been observed mainly in the morning on various modes of transportation, including Shinkansen, flights, and expressways, as there are no restrictions on movement due to the COVID-19 pandemic. And that's all for today's news. Thanks for listening to Japan Daily News.
