---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2023-12-12 09:06:17 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-12-12.mp3
summary: "Corporate Prices Rise for the 11th Consecutive Month | Investigation into Inappropriate Online Medical Consultations, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for December 12th, 2023."
duration: "185"
length: "03:05"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "-1"
weather_sapporo_description: "Heavy snow"
weather_sapporo_image: "snowy.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "16"
weather_tokyo_description: "Patchy rain possible"
weather_tokyo_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "16"
weather_nagoya_description: "Cloudy"
weather_nagoya_image: "cloudy2.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "17"
weather_osaka_description: "Patchy rain possible"
weather_osaka_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "16"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Patchy rain possible"
weather_fukuoka_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "22"
weather_naha_description: "Patchy rain possible"
weather_naha_image: "rainy1.png"

proverb_id: "106"
proverb_ja: "ミイラ取りがミイラになる"
proverb_hiragana: "みいらとりがみいらになる"
proverb_en: "The one who goes to retrieve the mummy becomes a mummy"
proverb_lit: "The mummy retriever becomes a mummy."

currency_usd: "146.4"
currency_gbp: "184.2"
currency_eur: "157.5"
currency_cad: "107.9"
currency_aud: "96.0"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231212/k10014285471000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231212/k10014285241000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231212/k10014285441000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231212/k10014284971000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231212/k10014285221000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231212/k10014285211000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231212/k10014285231000.html"

news_story_title1: "11月企業物価指数 前年同月比0.3％上昇 伸び率11か月連続鈍化"
news_story_title2: "オンライン診療 不適切な医療機関の実態調査へ 厚労省"
news_story_title3: "京都 住宅火災で男女2人が死亡"
news_story_title4: "ドローン 補助なく無人の場所飛ぶレベル3.5 配送サービス開始"
news_story_title5: "厚労省 雇用保険の対象 週10時間以上労働の人まで拡大の方針"
news_story_title6: "陸自女性隊員強制わいせつ事件の裁判 12日判決 福島地裁"
news_story_title7: "COP28 合意文書草案を発表 化石燃料「段階的な廃止」言及せず"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on December 12th, 2023. In today's news, we have two significant stories to discuss.

First, the corporate prices in Japan have risen for the 11th consecutive month. The Corporate Goods Price Index for November increased by 0.3% compared to the same month last year. However, the growth rate has been slowing down for the past 11 months, following a peak of 10.6% in December last year.

Moving on to our second story, the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare has launched an investigation into inappropriate online medical consultations. It has come to their attention that some medical institutions are conducting consultations in ways that are not approved by the national guidelines for online medical care. The ministry aims to gather information about these practices and take appropriate measures.

In other news, a tragic incident occurred in Kyoto, where a house fire resulted in the death of two individuals. The fire broke out early in the morning, and the bodies of a man and a woman were found in the bathroom. The police are currently investigating the cause of the fire and working on confirming the identities of the victims.

Shifting gears, a groundbreaking drone delivery service has started in the town of Kamisato in Hokkaido. This service allows drones to fly in unmanned areas without the need for assistants or signage. It is the first time in Japan that Level 3.5 autonomous drone flights are being used for delivery purposes.

In employment news, the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare plans to expand the coverage of employment insurance. The current threshold of 20 hours per week will be lowered to 10 hours per week, making part-time and temporary workers eligible for unemployment benefits and parental leave allowances. This change aims to provide support to a wider range of workers.

Moving on to a court case that has garnered significant attention, the verdict will be delivered today in the trial related to the sexual assault of a female member of the Ground Self-Defense Force. Three former superiors are facing charges of forced indecent acts against Rina Gonoi. This case prompted the Ministry of Defense to launch a special defense inspection to investigate harassment within the organization. The defendants claim their innocence, and the court's judgment will determine whether their actions constitute sexual assault.

Lastly, at the COP28 conference in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates, a draft of the agreement document has been released. However, the draft falls short of addressing the gradual elimination of fossil fuels, a demand made by advanced countries in Europe and North America. The negotiations in the final stages of the conference will be crucial in determining the response of each country.

That concludes today's news from Japan Daily News. Thank you for listening. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be mostly cloudy with a high temperature of 16°C and a low temperature of 12°C. There is a chance of light rain throughout the day.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
