---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News - 2023-10-02"
date: 2023-10-02 08:41:17 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-10-02.mp3
summary: "Tokyo Man Stabbed to Death, Nobel Prize Winners Announced, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for October 2nd, 2023."
duration: "113"
length: "01:53"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"
---

### Transcript

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on October 2nd, 2023. In Tokyo, an 80-year-old man was found stabbed in his chest and later pronounced dead. His 50-year-old son, who lives in the same room, was injured and receiving treatment at the hospital. The police are waiting for the son's recovery to question him about the incident.

In Tsukuba City, Ibaraki Prefecture, a residential house caught fire and one person was found dead. The police are working to identify the victim.

The announcement of the 2023 Nobel Prize winners has begun. Japan has had a total of 28 winners, including those who have obtained American citizenship. This year's winners are highly anticipated.

In light of the sexual misconduct allegations against Johnny Kitagawa, the founder of Johnny & Associates, the talent agency is considering establishing a new company to transfer the functions of the current agency, including talent management. The agency is also in the process of changing its name and coordinating compensation for the victims. A press conference is scheduled for this afternoon to provide further details.

In the case of the arrest of a teacher from Yotsuya Otsuka, a major cram school for junior high school entrance exams, for secretly filming female students, it has been revealed that another teacher, who worked at the same school, was also involved in the filming. The police have arrested both individuals.

A 31-year-old part-time employee has been arrested in Hiroshima for damaging and disposing of the body of a 70-year-old acquaintance, partially in the sea. The police are investigating the circumstances surrounding the man's death.

The Odakyu Odawara Line has resumed operation. It was temporarily suspended between Aikō-Ishida Station and Isehara Station due to a personal accident, but service has now resumed as of 2 a.m.   And that's all for today's news. Thanks for listening to Japan Daily News.
