---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News - 2023-05-20"
date: 2023-05-20 08:07:44 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-05-20.mp3
summary: "Moderna Japan launches website with daily COVID-19 infection estimates, Daihatsu halts production and sales of two hybrid cars in Japan due to falsified collision test data, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for May 20th, 2023."
duration: "88"
length: "01:28"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"
---

### Transcript

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on May 20th, 2023. The Freelance Summit is being held in Tokyo to discuss creating a safe working environment for freelancers. Moderna Japan has launched a website that updates daily with estimated COVID-19 infection numbers by prefecture and nationwide. A Japanese civilian group delivered approximately 120 wheelchairs to Ukraine to aid the elderly and injured soldiers affected by the Russian military invasion. Daihatsu admitted to falsifying collision test data for two hybrid cars sold in Japan and has halted production and sales. The Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare released the first national data on COVID-19 infection rates based on medical facilities' reports. The G7 Summit in Hiroshima has caused traffic restrictions and affected tram services. The Consumer Affairs Agency's accident investigation committee will investigate the safety of one-on-one personal training after reports of accidents resulting in muscle damage and spine fractures. A senior White House official expressed gratitude for President Biden's visit to the Hiroshima Peace Memorial Museum and emphasized the importance of nuclear deterrence while condemning Russia's nuclear intimidation. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, it will be mostly cloudy with heavy rain and temperatures ranging from 19 to 21 degrees Celsius.  And that's all for today's news. Thanks for listening to Japan Daily News.
