---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News - 2023-09-11"
date: 2023-09-11 09:38:19 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-09-11.mp3
summary: "Train Services Suspended on JR Sotobo Line and Earthquake Relief Efforts in Morocco, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for September 11th, 2023."
duration: "117"
length: "01:57"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"
---

### Transcript

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on September 11th, 2023. Train services on the JR Sotobo Line between Hoden Station and Oami Station will be suspended until the 13th due to heavy rain on the 8th of this month. In Morocco, a powerful earthquake on the 8th has resulted in over 2,100 deaths. While rescue efforts are ongoing, there is a shortage of relief supplies, making assistance challenging.

In other news, the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry has released new guidelines for corporate acquisitions. The guidelines emphasize that the management of the target company should seriously consider acquisition proposals, as they may enhance corporate value.

The Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism plans to improve the working conditions of construction workers by setting wage guidelines. If a contract sets wages significantly below the guidelines, administrative guidance will be given to the contractor.

A fire broke out in a residential building in Kitano, Nagoya, Aichi Prefecture, on the night of the 10th. Two bodies were found in the burnt remains, and the police are investigating the cause of the fire.

Unstable atmospheric conditions are affecting various parts of Japan, particularly in western regions, where heavy rain, lightning, and strong gusts are expected until the 12th. Please exercise caution.

In a landmark case, a court in Sapporo, Hokkaido, will deliver its verdict today on a lawsuit filed by a former government employee challenging the denial of dependent allowances to same-sex couples in factually married relationships. The outcome of this trial, which tests whether the denial violates the constitutional guarantee of equality, is highly anticipated. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be partly cloudy with a maximum temperature of 27 degrees Celsius.  And that's all for today's news. Thanks for listening to Japan Daily News.
