---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2023-12-23 10:50:13 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-12-23.mp3
summary: "Heavy Snowfall Hits Japan's West Coast; Government Revises Guidelines for School Accidents, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for December 23rd, 2023."
duration: "198"
length: "03:18"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "-8"
weather_sapporo_description: "Moderate or heavy snow showers"
weather_sapporo_image: "snowy.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "7"
weather_tokyo_description: "Sunny"
weather_tokyo_image: "sunny.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "6"
weather_nagoya_description: "Partly cloudy"
weather_nagoya_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "7"
weather_osaka_description: "Sunny"
weather_osaka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "6"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Partly cloudy"
weather_fukuoka_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "17"
weather_naha_description: "Light rain shower"
weather_naha_image: "rainy1.png"

proverb_id: "43"
proverb_ja: "触らぬ神に祟りなし"
proverb_hiragana: "さわらぬかみにたたりなし"
proverb_en: "If you don't interfere, you won't invite trouble."
proverb_lit: "No curse falls upon the god untouched."

currency_usd: "142.0"
currency_gbp: "180.8"
currency_eur: "156.7"
currency_cad: "107.1"
currency_aud: "96.7"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231223/k10014297491000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231223/k10014297301000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231223/k10014297501000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231223/k10014297401000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231223/k10014297321000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231223/k10014297341000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231222/k10014295901000.html"

news_story_title1: "日本海側中心に大雪 除雪作業中の事故や交通影響に注意"
news_story_title2: "学校事故への対応指針の改訂案 国が積極的に把握支援へ 文科省"
news_story_title3: "70歳までの就業機会確保 対応している企業は約3割 厚労省調査"
news_story_title4: "海保 大型無人機運用拠点 2025年度に青森から北九州に移転"
news_story_title5: "職員や家族から虐待受けた障害者 全国3482人と過去最多に"
news_story_title6: "防衛装備品 輸出ルール緩和 共同開発の装備品輸出は議論継続へ"
news_story_title7: "【大雪被害】トレーラー ガードレール突き破り川に落下 福岡県"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on December 23rd, 2023. In today's news, Japan's west coast, particularly the Hokuriku region, is experiencing heavy snowfall, with snow accumulation significantly exceeding the average for this time of year. This has led to transportation disruptions and accidents during snow removal operations. Please exercise caution when traveling and be aware of the potential hazards caused by snow and icy road conditions.

In other news, the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology has announced a revised set of guidelines for responding to accidents in schools. Under the new guidelines, the government will actively gather information and provide support to schools and local authorities in the event of fatal accidents. The aim is to prevent such incidents from occurring in the future. Additionally, the ministry plans to disseminate safety inspection procedures online to enhance preventive measures.

Moving on, a survey conducted by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare has revealed that only about 30% of companies have implemented measures to ensure employment opportunities for workers up to the age of 70, as mandated by law. The government has been promoting the expansion of employment for elderly individuals, but the survey results indicate that more efforts are needed to meet this goal.

In maritime news, the Japan Coast Guard has decided to relocate the operational base for its large unmanned aerial vehicles from Aomori Prefecture to the Kitakyushu Air Base in Fukuoka Prefecture. This move is scheduled to take place in the fiscal year 2025.

Furthermore, a report from the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare has revealed a record-high number of individuals with disabilities who have experienced abuse from facility staff members or family members. In the previous fiscal year, a total of 3,482 cases were reported across the country. The ministry emphasizes the importance of ensuring the safety and well-being of vulnerable individuals.

In defense-related news, the Japanese government has revised the operational guidelines for the transfer of defense equipment, easing the rules for exporting such items. However, discussions are ongoing regarding the export of jointly developed equipment to third countries. The ruling Liberal Democratic Party and its coalition partner, Komeito, have yet to reach a consensus on this matter and will continue deliberations in the new year.

Lastly, due to the influence of cold air and a winter pressure pattern, heavy snowfall has caused a trailer to crash through a guardrail and fall into a river in Fukuoka Prefecture. The Hokuriku region has been particularly affected by the wintry conditions, with Ishikawa Prefecture issuing a significant snowfall warning earlier today.

That's all for today's news. Thank you for listening to Japan Daily News. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be clear with a maximum temperature of 7°C and a minimum temperature of 4°C. There is a 92% chance of dry weather and an 86% chance of sunshine. The wind will be coming from the north-northwest at a speed of 30 km/h. Overall, it will be a sunny day with a UV index of 3.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
