---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News - 2023-09-13"
date: 2023-09-13 08:29:29 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-09-13.mp3
summary: "High School Students' Job Demand Reaches Record High, and Symposium on Reforming Doctors' Working Conditions, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for September 13th, 2023."
duration: "133"
length: "02:13"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"
---

### Transcript

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on September 13th, 2023. The job demand for high school students has reached a record high, with a job-to-applicant ratio of 3.52. The Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare attributes this increase to the shortage of workers and the growing number of job openings by companies.

A symposium was held by a medical association to discuss the reform of doctors' working conditions and the balance with regional healthcare. The participants emphasized the need to address the imbalance of doctors in different regions and medical departments in order to improve long working hours.

The second trial of the leader of the Kitakudo-kai, a designated dangerous organized crime group in Kitakyushu City, has begun at the Fukuoka High Court. The leader is charged with murder and other crimes related to an incident where four citizens were killed or injured. The focus of the trial is whether there was coordination among the top members, following the verdict of the first trial.

In response to the arrest of a middle school principal in Nerima Ward, Tokyo, who was found to possess explicit images of a minor, an emergency meeting was held for parents. Concerns were raised about the impact on students and questioned the response of the board of education and the school.

According to a survey by the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology, less than 20% of fixed-term researchers, out of over 12,000 researchers who could switch to indefinite employment if their contract was renewed by April 1st, have had their contracts terminated for reasons other than retirement.

An executive of a large-scale robbery group, who was arrested for his involvement in the Komae incident where a 90-year-old woman was assaulted and killed, had asked an acquaintance in Japan to arrange a car and a driver a few days before the incident.

A current employee of the Ministry of Defense has been stationed in the office of Japan's representative agency in Taipei, Taiwan. This move strengthens the information gathering system amid growing concerns about the situation in Taiwan. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be sunny with a high of 27°C and a low of 26°C.  And that's all for today's news. Thanks for listening to Japan Daily News.
