---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2023-10-20 08:28:44 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-10-20.mp3
summary: "Tragic Discovery: Body of 15-Year-Old Girl Found in Rental Car in Tochigi, and High Levels of PFAS Detected in Employee's Blood at Shizuoka Chemical Plant, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for October 20th, 2023."
duration: "150"
length: "02:30"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "8"
weather_sapporo_description: "Moderate rain"
weather_sapporo_image: "rainy2.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "26"
weather_tokyo_description: "Sunny"
weather_tokyo_image: "sunny.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "24"
weather_nagoya_description: "Overcast"
weather_nagoya_image: "cloudy3.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "24"
weather_osaka_description: "Partly cloudy"
weather_osaka_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "19"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Light rain shower"
weather_fukuoka_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "26"
weather_naha_description: "Partly cloudy"
weather_naha_image: "cloudy1.png"

proverb_id: "123"
proverb_ja: "恋は盲目"
proverb_hiragana: "こいはもうもく"
proverb_en: "Love is blind."
proverb_lit: "Love is blind."

currency_usd: "149.9"
currency_gbp: "181.5"
currency_eur: "158.2"
currency_cad: "109.2"
currency_aud: "94.6"
---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on October 20th, 2023. In today's news, a tragic discovery was made in Tochigi Prefecture as the body of a 15-year-old high school student from Chiba was found in a rental car. The police have identified a 28-year-old suspect who was arrested on suspicion of abandoning the body. The investigation is ongoing to determine the cause of death.

Moving on to another story, a chemical plant in Shizuoka City has revealed that high levels of PFAS, a harmful substance among the organic fluorine compounds, were detected in the blood of its employees. According to internal documents created by the former parent company, some individuals exceeded the health risk threshold set in the United States by 400 times.

In other news, the first trial of Kabuki actor Ichikawa Sarunojo, who is charged with assisting the suicide of his parents by administering sleeping pills, will be held today at the Tokyo District Court. It is expected that Sarunojo will admit to the charges, and there is great interest in what he will reveal about his motives and the circumstances.

Returning to the case in Tochigi, it has been discovered that the female victim had marks on her neck, suggesting she may have been strangled. The police are conducting further investigations to confirm her identity and determine the exact cause of death.

Moving on to a different story, it has been revealed that approximately 4 million pieces of customer information leaked in the NTT West Japan subsidiary's data breach were from a company in Okayama Prefecture. This is believed to be the largest number of affected cases, and the Okayama Police Headquarters has initiated an investigation into possible violations of the Act against Unjustifiable Premiums and Misleading Representations.

In other news, a man in his 60s was attacked by a bear in a mountain village in Aga Town, Niigata Prefecture. He sustained injuries to his face and arms and has been transported to the hospital for treatment.

Lastly, on the Hankyu Kobe Line, a male passenger in his 30s sprayed a substance resembling tear gas inside the train, causing five women in the same carriage to complain of throat pain. The police have apprehended the male passenger and are investigating the details of the incident. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be sunny with a maximum temperature of 26°C and a minimum temperature of 20°C.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
