---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News - 2023-09-15"
date: 2023-09-15 08:15:20 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-09-15.mp3
summary: "Evacuation Orders Issued in Saga as Heavy Rainfall Increases Risk of Landslides | Hit-and-Run Suspect Designated as 'Most Wanted' in Oita, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for September 15th, 2023."
duration: "154"
length: "02:34"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"
---

### Transcript

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on September 15th, 2023. In our top stories today:

Saga Prefecture has issued evacuation orders for a total of 6,215 households and 14,594 people in the Hizen, Chinzei, and Yobuko districts due to the increased risk of landslides caused by heavy rainfall. The authorities have raised the alert level to level 4, urging immediate evacuation from dangerous areas.

The suspect, a 27-year-old man, involved in a hit-and-run incident in Beppu City, Oita Prefecture last year, has been designated as 'most wanted' by the National Police Agency. This is the first time a hit-and-run suspect has been designated as such nationwide.

In other news:

A survey conducted by the Japanese Trade Union Confederation revealed that 37% of women and 58% of men who are raising children under elementary school age have not utilized support systems such as childcare leave and part-time work.

The recent devastating floods in Libya have claimed the lives of over 5,000 people, according to local media reports. The lack of disaster preparedness in a country plagued by political turmoil has resulted in the increased severity of the damage.

Used car dealership company Big Motor has announced plans for a comprehensive restructuring of its management with the assistance of external support by the end of this year, following a series of issues including fraudulent insurance claims.

The number of bankruptcies among home care service providers has reached a record high of 44 cases from January to August this year. This alarming increase is attributed to factors such as a shortage of caregivers, highlighting the urgent need for countermeasures.

After delays caused by nighttime construction work at Tokyo Station, JR East has resumed full operations on the Yamanote Line and the Keihin-Tohoku Line as of 5:30 a.m.

That's all for today's news. Thank you for listening to Japan Daily News. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be partly cloudy with a maximum temperature of 28°C and a minimum temperature of 27°C. There is a 97% chance of high temperature, 33% chance of overcast, and 0% chance of rain. The UV index is 6, which means moderate risk of harm from unprotected sun exposure. The visibility is 10 kilometers and the humidity is 84%. Enjoy your day!  And that's all for today's news. Thanks for listening to Japan Daily News.
