---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2023-11-07 07:33:51 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-11-07.mp3
summary: "Unstable Weather Causes Heavy Rain and Disruptions in Tokyo Bay, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for November 7th, 2023."
duration: "177"
length: "02:57"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "12"
weather_sapporo_description: "Patchy rain possible"
weather_sapporo_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "24"
weather_tokyo_description: "Sunny"
weather_tokyo_image: "sunny.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "20"
weather_nagoya_description: "Sunny"
weather_nagoya_image: "sunny.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "20"
weather_osaka_description: "Sunny"
weather_osaka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "17"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Sunny"
weather_fukuoka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "24"
weather_naha_description: "Overcast"
weather_naha_image: "cloudy3.png"

proverb_id: "33"
proverb_ja: "可愛い子には旅をさせよ"
proverb_hiragana: "かわいいこにはたびをさせよ"
proverb_en: "If you love your children, don't pamper them; instead, let them experience hardships."
proverb_lit: "Send the beloved child on a journey."

currency_usd: "149.7"
currency_gbp: "185.5"
currency_eur: "160.8"
currency_cad: "109.6"
currency_aud: "97.4"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231107/k10014248911000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231107/k10014249321000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231107/k10014249311000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231107/k10014249151000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231106/k10014249181000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231106/k10014249071000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231106/k10014249161000.html"

news_story_title1: "大気不安定 東日本～北日本で大雨のおそれ 暴風・高波など警戒"
news_story_title2: "東京湾フェリー 悪天候のため始発から欠航"
news_story_title3: "東京湾アクアライン 強風のため通行止め"
news_story_title4: "宮城 七ヶ浜町 3人死亡 妻が夫ら2人殺害か 介護疲れ無理心中か"
news_story_title5: "海自女性隊員のセクハラ被害で防衛相が全隊員に緊急メッセージ"
news_story_title6: "日本赤軍の元メンバー 和光晴生受刑者 服役中の刑務所で死去"
news_story_title7: "最高裁の新判事に就任 宮川美津子氏 “公平で妥当な判断を”"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on November 7th, 2023. In today's news, Japan is experiencing unstable weather conditions, particularly in eastern and northern regions, with the possibility of heavy rain, strong winds, and high waves. The Japan Meteorological Agency has issued warnings for potential stormy weather, including the risk of landslides and other hazards. Moving on to transportation news, due to the inclement weather, the Tokyo Bay Ferry service between Yokosuka City in Kanagawa Prefecture and Futtsu City in Chiba Prefecture has been canceled since the first departure. The resumption of operations is uncertain, and passengers are advised to check the official website for updates. Additionally, the Tokyo Bay Aqua-Line, a major expressway connecting Kawasaki City in Kanagawa Prefecture and Sodegaura City in Chiba Prefecture, has been closed in both directions due to strong winds. The closure extends from the Kawasaki-Ukishima Junction to the Kisarazu-Kaneda Interchange for the downbound lanes, and from the Sodegaura Interchange, including the Aqua-Line Link Road, to the Kawasaki-Ukishima Junction for the upbound lanes. The closure began at 5 a.m. Turning to a tragic incident, the police investigation into a case in Nanaehama Town, Miyagi Prefecture, has revealed that a woman is suspected of strangling her husband and brother-in-law, resulting in their deaths. The investigation suggests that the wife, who was the sole caregiver for the two elderly brothers, may have been overwhelmed by the demands of caregiving, leading to this tragic incident. In other news, Defense Minister Kihara has issued an urgent message to all members of the Maritime Self-Defense Force following a case of sexual harassment involving a female servicemember. The incident involved harassment followed by inappropriate handling by superiors, who arranged a meeting between the victim and the perpetrator against her wishes. The defense minister emphasized the importance of individual awareness in preventing harassment. Shifting gears, a former member of the Japanese Red Army, Haruo Wakou, has passed away while serving a life sentence in prison. Wakou was convicted for his involvement in various acts, including the occupation of the Japanese embassy in The Hague, Netherlands, about 50 years ago. Finally, in judicial news, Mitsuko Miyagawa, a lawyer, has been appointed as a new justice of the Supreme Court. Miyagawa expressed her commitment to listen to diverse opinions and make fair and reasonable judgments in her new role. That's all for today's news from Japan Daily News. Stay tuned for more updates. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be mostly cloudy with a chance of light rain. The temperature will range from 19°C to 24°C.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
