---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2023-12-31 10:26:49 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-12-31.mp3
summary: "Foreign Trainees Transfer Conditions Under Review, Unstable Weather Expected Across Japan, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for December 31st, 2023."
duration: "177"
length: "02:57"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "-2"
weather_sapporo_description: "Heavy snow"
weather_sapporo_image: "snowy.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "12"
weather_tokyo_description: "Overcast"
weather_tokyo_image: "cloudy3.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "12"
weather_nagoya_description: "Cloudy"
weather_nagoya_image: "cloudy2.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "14"
weather_osaka_description: "Light drizzle"
weather_osaka_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "13"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Patchy rain possible"
weather_fukuoka_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "21"
weather_naha_description: "Partly cloudy"
weather_naha_image: "cloudy1.png"

proverb_id: "18"
proverb_ja: "命あっての物種"
proverb_hiragana: "いのちあってのものだね"
proverb_en: "Life enables everything, and death accomplishes nothing."
proverb_lit: "With life, there are things (to be done)."

currency_usd: "141.4"
currency_gbp: "179.9"
currency_eur: "156.2"
currency_cad: "106.7"
currency_aud: "96.2"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231231/k10014304201000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231231/k10014304101000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231231/k10014304131000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231231/k10014304091000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231231/k10014304081000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231231/k10014304141000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231230/k10014303981000.html"

news_story_title1: "外国人の技能実習制度見直し 別企業に移る転籍の条件も焦点に"
news_story_title2: "西～東日本 日本海側中心に元日にかけ大気不安定 落雷など注意"
news_story_title3: "坂田利夫さん死去 82歳 「アホの坂田」で親しまれる"
news_story_title4: "「南海トラフ地震臨時情報」被害想定地域で認知 3割に届かず"
news_story_title5: "子ども居場所づくり 基本的な考え方などを盛り込んだ指針策定"
news_story_title6: "多摩川 スーツケースの遺体は46歳男性 殺人事件として捜査"
news_story_title7: "母が餅を詰まらせて…緊迫の通報記録 2年で661人の高齢者死亡"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on December 31st, 2023. In our first news story, the Japanese government's expert panel has decided to review the transfer conditions for foreign trainees under the Technical Intern Training Program. This includes allowing trainees to transfer to different companies under certain conditions. However, there are cautious opinions within the ruling party, so the specific conditions for transfers are expected to be a key focus in the process of revising the law.

Moving on to our next story, unstable weather is expected across Japan, particularly along the Japan Sea coast from western to eastern Japan. This is due to the influx of cold air into the atmosphere. The unstable atmospheric conditions are forecasted to continue until January 1st. Please be cautious of thunderstorms, gusty winds, and sudden heavy rainfall.

In other news, comedian Toshio Sakata, affectionately known as 'Aho no Sakata' (Sakata the Fool), has passed away at the age of 82 in Osaka. He was well-loved for his comedic performances.

Turning our attention to a government survey, it has revealed that only 30% of the areas expected to be affected by the Nankai Trough earthquake are aware of the 'Nankai Trough Earthquake Temporary Information' that is announced when abnormal phenomena are observed along the Nankai Trough. The survey highlights a lack of awareness among the population in the potential disaster areas.

In an effort to create safe spaces for children and young people, the Japanese government has formulated guidelines that incorporate fundamental principles and the roles of relevant organizations. These guidelines aim to promote the establishment of places where children and young people can feel secure and comfortable.

In a tragic incident, the body of a 46-year-old man was found inside a suitcase recovered from the Tama River in Kawasaki City. The cause of death has been determined to be suffocation. The police are investigating the case as a homicide and are working to gather more details.

As the year comes to a close, it is important to be cautious of choking incidents related to mochi, a traditional Japanese rice cake. According to a national survey, over 660 elderly people have died from choking on mochi in the past two years, with nearly 20% of these incidents occurring during the first three days of the new year. Experts advise paying attention to the eating habits and swallowing abilities of individuals, especially those at risk of choking, and emphasize the need for sufficient caution. Please note that the video at the beginning of the news report features an audio recording of a family reporting a choking incident involving mochi to the fire department. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be partly cloudy with a maximum temperature of 12°C and a minimum temperature of 9°C.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
