---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News - 2023-09-18"
date: 2023-09-18 08:05:51 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-09-18.mp3
summary: "Disaster Preparedness Lessons from Sendai City Officials in Yokohama | New Species of Shrimp Discovered in Hot Springs, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for September 18th, 2023."
duration: "113"
length: "01:53"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"
---

### Transcript

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on September 18th, 2023. In Yokohama, a program was held at a local university to share the experiences of Sendai city officials during the Great East Japan Earthquake and learn from them to better prepare for future disasters.

Researchers from Hiroshima University and an international research group have discovered a new species of shrimp called Yokoebi, also known as the 'Emperor Shrimp' in Peru. This unique species can live in hot springs and withstand water temperatures above 50 degrees Celsius.

As the unseasonably hot weather continues, a heatstroke alert has been issued for Gunma Prefecture and Okinawa Island. Some areas are expected to reach temperatures above 35 degrees Celsius. Remember to stay hydrated even if you don't feel thirsty.

Due to the unstable atmospheric conditions caused by moist air flowing into Kyushu, the Japan Meteorological Agency has warned of the possibility of heavy rain accompanied by thunderstorms in northern Kyushu. Residents are urged to be cautious of landslides and flooding, especially in low-lying areas.

In a murder case at a ramen shop in Yokohama, a 35-year-old relative of the 33-year-old victim, who was also an employee at the shop, has been arrested on suspicion of murder.

The National Hospital Organization Mie Hospital is seeking donations to fund research on a new treatment method for severe egg allergies in children. They aim to raise 8 million yen through online donations starting this month.

The scorching summer heat continues in Niigata, with temperatures exceeding 37 degrees Celsius. The heatwave is expected to persist on the 18th, so please remain cautious of heatstroke. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be partly cloudy with a maximum temperature of 28 degrees Celsius.  And that's all for today's news. Thanks for listening to Japan Daily News.
