---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News - 2023-06-05"
date: 2023-06-05 08:10:14 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-06-05.mp3
summary: "Tokyo Metro Marunouchi Line resumes full service after signal malfunction, Earthquake activity continues in Ishikawa Prefecture one month after magnitude 6.0 earthquake, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for June 5th, 2023."
duration: "97"
length: "01:37"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"
---

### Transcript

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on June 5th, 2023. The Tokyo Metro Marunouchi Line has resumed full service after a signal malfunction caused a suspension of service between Ikebukuro and Myogadani stations. In Ishikawa Prefecture's Noto region, earthquake activity continues to be active one month after a magnitude 6.0 earthquake. There have been over 120 aftershocks with a magnitude of 1 or higher. Meanwhile, in Suzu City, also in Ishikawa Prefecture, NHK has conducted an investigation into why people continue to live in dangerous homes that were damaged during the earthquake. The Japan Fair Trade Commission has issued a record number of recommendations and guidance in response to over 8,600 cases of subcontracting law violations by companies. In a high-profile case, the Fukuoka High Court Miyazaki Branch will decide whether to grant a retrial for a 95-year-old woman who has been serving a sentence for a murder she claims she did not commit. Former Senator Garsi has been arrested upon his return to Japan from the UAE on charges of violating the Act on Punishment of Violence and other crimes related to repeatedly threatening celebrities on a video-sharing site. Finally, many parts of Japan are expected to experience temperatures similar to those in July, with the risk of heatstroke, so please take necessary precautions. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, it will be mostly sunny with a high of 24°C and a low of 22°C, and a UV index of 6.  And that's all for today's news. Thanks for listening to Japan Daily News.
