---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News - 2023-04-27"
date: 2023-04-27 07:45:27 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-04-27.mp3
summary: "Japan's immigration law reform, Emperor's garden party, earthquake damage review, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for April 27th, 2023."
duration: "132"
length: "02:12"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"
---

### Transcript

Hello and welcome to Japan Daily News for April 27, 2023. Here are today's headlines:

The ruling party has incorporated revisions demanded by the opposition Japan Innovation Party into the immigration law reform bill, which aims to review the way foreign nationals are detained. The Constitutional Democratic Party opposes the ruling party's revisions and aims to vote against them in the committee on the 28th.

The Emperor and Empress will host the first garden party of the Reiwa era on May 11th, and over 1,300 people have been invited, including national wheelchair tennis champion Shingo Kunieda, who was awarded the Order of National Honor.

The government is considering ending the coronavirus border control measures earlier than planned, on April 29th, to facilitate the expected increase in overseas travelers and smooth the return process.

The Keio University American football team has announced that 24 members, including five under the age of 20, have been expelled from the team for drinking on their return from a Kansai trip. The team will suspend all activities for the time being.

The government has held its second meeting to review the expected damage from a massive earthquake on the Nankai Trough, and will further consider specific evacuation methods, taking into account the effectiveness of hard measures such as seawalls and the characteristics of the region.

The Saitama Prefectural Board of Education has dismissed three teachers, including a 25-year-old teacher, for committing indecent acts against a female student at a special needs school where they worked.

Japan Post has announced that 103 cases of violations have been found in the company's internal procedures for renting land or relocating post offices. The company has imposed penalties such as reduced compensation and warnings on 73 people, including executives.

Due to the risk of landslides, the city of Kure in Hiroshima has issued evacuation orders to 27 households in the Hiroshioyaki district, and there is no prospect of lifting the orders as of yet. The city is urging residents to evacuate due to the possibility of large stones falling from the mountain. And that's all for today's news. Thanks for listening to Japan Daily News.
