---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2023-11-28 18:54:54 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-11-28.mp3
summary: "Care Workers' Wages to Increase, Police Inspector Charged with Sexual Assault, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for November 28th, 2023."
duration: "172"
length: "02:52"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "7"
weather_sapporo_description: "Patchy rain possible"
weather_sapporo_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "20"
weather_tokyo_description: "Sunny"
weather_tokyo_image: "sunny.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "16"
weather_nagoya_description: "Patchy rain possible"
weather_nagoya_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "16"
weather_osaka_description: "Sunny"
weather_osaka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "14"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Light rain shower"
weather_fukuoka_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "22"
weather_naha_description: "Sunny"
weather_naha_image: "sunny.png"

proverb_id: "29"
proverb_ja: "霞に千鳥"
proverb_hiragana: "かすみにちどり"
proverb_en: "Something unsuitable or out of place."
proverb_lit: "Plovers in the mist."

currency_usd: "148.8"
currency_gbp: "188.0"
currency_eur: "162.9"
currency_cad: "109.1"
currency_aud: "98.2"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231128/k10014271341000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231128/k10014271291000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231128/k10014271011000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231128/k10014271301000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231128/k10014271311000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231128/k10014271331000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231128/k10014271281000.html"

news_story_title1: "介護職員 月額6000円程度の賃上げ 恒久化の方向で調整 厚労省"
news_story_title2: "女性に性的暴行したなどとして警視正を起訴 近く再逮捕へ"
news_story_title3: "海外での臓器移植あっせんで初判決 懲役8か月の実刑 東京地裁"
news_story_title4: "ネットひぼう中傷 自民調査会 通常国会での法改正も視野に検討"
news_story_title5: "大阪府警の巡査 現金詐取疑い逮捕 詐欺グループの受け取り役か"
news_story_title6: "行方不明18歳女性の遺体 遺棄した疑い 30歳会社員を逮捕"
news_story_title7: "パスポート窓口の担当者 日本国籍持つ人に限定を 外務省が通知"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on November 28th, 2023. In today's news, the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare is considering a permanent raise of around 6,000 yen per month for care workers, in order to secure more staff in the struggling caregiving field. The raise, currently set to be implemented until May next year, would be incorporated into the caregiving fees starting from June. In another story, a 58-year-old police inspector who served as the head of the China Shikoku Police Academy has been charged with sexual assault against a woman in her 20s whom he met on a dating app. According to the indictment, the inspector threatened the woman with revealing her involvement in prostitution to her family and workplace, and then sexually assaulted her, promising to protect her if she engaged in a relationship with him. The police are also planning to rearrest the inspector in a separate case involving a similar incident with another woman. Moving on, the Tokyo District Court has handed down a sentence of eight months in prison to a director of a non-profit organization who was charged with illegally arranging organ transplants overseas without government approval. This is the first time a court has made a ruling on the crime of illegally arranging organ transplants without permission. Shifting gears, the Liberal Democratic Party's investigation committee is considering a revision of the law during next year's ordinary session of the Diet to address online defamation and harassment. The committee believes that urgent measures are necessary. In a different news story, a 25-year-old police officer from the Osaka Prefectural Police Headquarters has been arrested on suspicion of fraudulently obtaining a total of 900,000 yen from women in Saga Prefecture by posing as a Canadian doctor and a fashion model on social media and sending them false messages. The police suspect that the officer was the recipient of the cash in a fraud group and are investigating the details. Furthermore, the body of an 18-year-old woman who had been missing since June was found in a mountain forest in Yamanashi Prefecture. The Tokyo Metropolitan Police Department arrested a 30-year-old male company employee on suspicion of disposing of the body. The police are currently investigating the details of the case. Lastly, following an incident in which a Chinese employee at the passport center in Toshima Ward, Tokyo, illicitly took out personal information of applicants, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has notified all prefectures in the country that the staff at passport centers should be limited to Japanese nationals only. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be mostly clear with a high of 20°C and a low of 13°C. There is a 5 UV index and no chance of rain or snow. Enjoy a sunny day!  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
