---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News - 2023-10-14"
date: 2023-10-14 07:59:33 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-10-14.mp3
summary: "Car Accident on Chuo Expressway, Disposal Site Debate for Nuclear Waste, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for October 14th, 2023."
duration: "150"
length: "02:30"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_maxtemp: "23"
weather_description: "Sunny"
weather_image: "sunny.png"

proverb_id: "2"
proverb_ja: "明日は明日の風が吹く"
proverb_hiragana: "あしたはあしたのかぜがふく"
proverb_en: "Don't worry about the future and live for today."
proverb_lit: "Tomorrow, tomorrow's wind will blow."

currency_usd: "149.7"
currency_gbp: "182.1"
currency_eur: "157.5"
currency_cad: "109.4"
currency_aud: "94.5"
---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on October 14th, 2023. In today's news, a car accident involving six vehicles occurred on the Chuo Expressway in Yamanashi, resulting in seven people being taken to the hospital with minor injuries. The accident took place on the evening of the 13th. Moving on to our next story, a government advisory council discussing the selection of a disposal site for high-level radioactive waste, also known as 'nuclear waste,' has received multiple opinions regarding the debate on Tsushima City in Nagasaki Prefecture. In September, the mayor of Tsushima City expressed his refusal to accept the investigation. Now, let's turn our attention to Yamato Transport. Eighteen part-time employees at their facility in Tsuchiura City, Ibaraki Prefecture, have formed a labor union in response to being notified of the termination of their employment contracts at the end of January next year. They aim to negotiate the withdrawal of the contract termination. Shifting gears, the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology has revealed that they have requested the Tokyo District Court to issue a dissolution order for the former Unification Church, citing illegal acts under civil law. The court will now hear opinions from both the ministry and the religious group before making a decision. Next, a self-defense officer, who is 41 years old, has been summarily indicted for insulting a former Ground Self-Defense Force member, a woman who had reported multiple cases of sexual assault by fellow officers, on the internet. Moving on, the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism has announced its intention to impose administrative sanctions, such as revoking the designation of vehicle inspection services, on all 34 facilities that were subject to on-site inspections related to the fraudulent insurance claims issue at Big Motor. The ministry plans to hold a hearing next week to hear the company's opinions before formally imposing the sanctions. Lastly, the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry has conducted interviews with the presidents of five major power companies and their subsidiaries who were issued improvement orders in relation to the alleged cartel in the sale of electricity to businesses. The purpose of the interviews was to confirm the progress of their efforts to prevent a recurrence.   Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
