---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News - 2023-05-28"
date: 2023-05-28 08:05:37 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-05-28.mp3
summary: "Self-proclaimed doctor arrested for obstructing official duties after barricading himself in medical clinic with a knife in Fukuoka, Typhoon No. 2 expected to approach Okinawa after May 31st, heavy rain also expected in eastern and western Japan after May 29th due to a front, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for May 28th, 2023."
duration: "89"
length: "01:29"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"
---

### Transcript

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on May 28th, 2023. A self-proclaimed doctor barricaded himself in a medical clinic in Itoshima, Fukuoka with a knife and was arrested by police on suspicion of obstructing official duties. Typhoon No. 2 is expected to approach Okinawa after May 31st, and heavy rain is also expected in eastern and western Japan after May 29th due to the influence of a front. In the case of the murder of four people with guns and knives in Nakano City, Nagano Prefecture, it was found through interviews with investigators that the suspect had little connection with the two female victims and may have held a one-sided grudge. An earthquake with a magnitude of 4 was observed in Toshima Village, Kagoshima, and earthquakes with magnitudes of 3 to 1 have continued. In Urayasu, Chiba, where suspicious fires have occurred in the parking lots of apartments during holiday nights, the police and fire departments have increased patrols and vigilance. A 25-year-old police officer from the Mitaka Police Station in the Metropolitan Police Department was arrested on suspicion of stealing several hundred thousand yen in cash from a house he visited to check on after receiving a 110 emergency call. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, it will be partly cloudy with temperatures ranging from 20 to 22 degrees Celsius (68 to 71 degrees Fahrenheit) and a UV index of 5.  And that's all for today's news. Thanks for listening to Japan Daily News.
