---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News - 2023-05-21"
date: 2023-05-21 08:19:01 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-05-21.mp3
summary: "Ukrainian President Zelensky participates in G7 Hiroshima Summit on final day, Temporary disruption of Hiroshima City website due to possible cyberattack, police investigate, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for May 21st, 2023."
duration: "77"
length: "01:17"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"
---

### Transcript

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on May 21st, 2023. The final day of the G7 Hiroshima Summit saw Ukrainian President Zelensky participate in a session with G7 and invited country leaders. The summit emphasized the importance of maintaining and strengthening the international order based on the rule of law. Meanwhile, Hiroshima City's website experienced a temporary disruption, possibly due to a cyberattack, and police are investigating the incident. In other news, a symposium was held in Tokyo to reflect on the 14-year-old lay judge system and preventing wrongful convictions. UK Prime Minister Snack tried his hand at making okonomiyaki in Hiroshima, while a magnitude 7.1 earthquake struck near New Caledonia's Loyalty Islands, causing a slight change in sea level in the coastal areas of surrounding countries. Finally, in a tragic incident, an 8-month-old infant was rushed to the hospital in critical condition after choking on an apple during a meal at a nursery in Ehime Prefecture. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, it will be mostly cloudy with a chance of light rain, with temperatures ranging from 19 to 22 degrees Celsius (66 to 71 degrees Fahrenheit).  And that's all for today's news. Thanks for listening to Japan Daily News.
