---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News - 2023-05-25"
date: 2023-05-25 08:04:02 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-05-25.mp3
summary: "Suspect in Thallium Murder Case Found to Have Related Search History on Smartphone, Government Aims to Halve Heatstroke Deaths by 2030 with Stronger Countermeasures Plan, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for May 25th, 2023."
duration: "78"
length: "01:18"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"
---

### Transcript

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on May 25th, 2023. A suspect in a murder case involving a university student and her aunt was found to have search history related to murder and thallium on his smartphone. The government has announced plans to halve the number of deaths from heatstroke by 2030. There have been multiple cases of trouble with the linking of 'My Number' to public money accounts, with three more cases reported in three different municipalities. A study conducted by a group including Kitasato University Hospital found that Ivermectin, a drug used to treat parasitic infections, was not effective in treating COVID-19 patients. A 6-month-old infant in a daycare center in Kagoshima is in critical condition after choking on grated apple. The hotel in Hiroshima that served as the main venue for the G7 summit has resumed normal operations without any major issues. Six people, including a former professional baseball player, were arrested for allegedly stealing cash and precious metals worth about 71 million yen from a vacant house in Wakayama in February. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, it will be partly cloudy with a high of 21°C (70°F) and a low of 19°C (67°F).  And that's all for today's news. Thanks for listening to Japan Daily News.
