---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News - 2023-06-12"
date: 2023-06-12 07:58:29 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-06-12.mp3
summary: "Typhoon Approaching Izu and Ogasawara Islands, Regulations on 'Mixed Loading' of Passengers and Luggage to be Relaxed Nationwide, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for June 12th, 2023."
duration: "89"
length: "01:29"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"
---

### Transcript

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on June 12th, 2023. A typhoon is expected to approach the Izu and Ogasawara Islands, bringing strong winds and rough seas. The Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism will relax regulations on "mixed loading" of passengers and luggage in taxis and charter buses nationwide to secure transportation and logistics means amid the aging population and driver shortages. A fire in Mito, Ibaraki Prefecture, killed three people, including an elderly couple and their son, and the police are investigating. The rate of men taking childcare leave increased significantly to over 47% last year, with expansion to small and medium-sized enterprises being a future challenge. A Japan Airlines flight from Haneda to Fukuoka made an emergency landing at Kitakyushu Airport due to engine trouble and not being able to land at Fukuoka Airport within operating hours. A wild boar attacked and injured five people, including a 2-year-old boy, in a residential area in Omura, Nagasaki. A 65-year-old man was arrested on suspicion of assaulting his older brother, who was found dead after the younger brother reported him as being unconscious in Naka, Ibaraki. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, it will be partly cloudy with a high of 22 degrees Celsius and a low of 22 degrees Celsius. There's a chance of patchy rain in the evening.  And that's all for today's news. Thanks for listening to Japan Daily News.
