---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News - 2023-10-13"
date: 2023-10-13 08:33:33 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-10-13.mp3
summary: "Typhoon 15 Approaches Ogasawara Islands, Clothing Company Involved in Accounting Fraud, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for October 13th, 2023."
duration: "173"
length: "02:53"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_maxtemp: "22"
weather_description: "Sunny"
weather_image: "sunny.png"

proverb_id: "37"
proverb_ja: "後悔先に立たず"
proverb_hiragana: "こうかいさきにたたず"
proverb_en: "Regretting something you've done doesn't change the past."
proverb_lit: "Regret does not stand ahead."

currency_usd: "149.0"
currency_gbp: "183.5"
currency_eur: "158.2"
currency_cad: "109.6"
currency_aud: "95.5"
---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on October 13th, 2023. In today's news, Typhoon 15 is approaching the Ogasawara Islands, bringing with it high waves and strong winds. The Japan Meteorological Agency is urging caution for residents in the area to be aware of the high waves and strong winds. Moving on to our next story, a clothing company in Osaka is under investigation for accounting fraud. Three individuals, including the representative of a consulting company, have been arrested on suspicion of falsifying the company's financial statements. It has been revealed that a subsidiary of the company had reported fictitious sales without any actual business operations. The Tokyo District Public Prosecutors Office's special investigation unit is analyzing the seized documents to uncover the details of the fraudulent accounting practices. Now, let's turn our attention to the issue of children's hospice care. The Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare will conduct its first survey to assess the current state of children's hospice facilities, aiming to provide a supportive environment for children battling serious illnesses such as pediatric cancer. The results of the survey will be used to consider how to enhance support for these children and their families. Moving on, amidst the ongoing conflict between Israel and the Hamas organization, a symposium was held with the participation of staff members from non-profit organizations providing support on the ground. The symposium shed light on the tense situation in the region. Shifting our focus back to Japan, the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology has announced its decision to officially request the dissolution of the former Unification Church, also known as the Moonies. This marks the third time a government agency has sought the dissolution of a religious organization based on violations of laws, and the first time it is based on civil law violations. Now, let's discuss the recent system malfunction that affected the interbank transfer system, causing delays in processing over 5 million transactions. The Financial Services Agency considers this incident to be of great concern and plans to issue an order to the Zengin Net, the nationwide interbank settlement network, demanding a report on the cause of the malfunction and measures to prevent recurrence. And finally, a tragic incident occurred in Toyama Prefecture. A 10-month-old baby girl was found unconscious on the premises of a residential property in Namerikawa City. Despite being rushed to the hospital, she was pronounced dead. The police are investigating the incident as a possible accidental fall from the second floor of the house. That's all for today's news from Japan Daily News. Thank you for listening.   Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
