---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2023-11-26 08:17:42 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-11-26.mp3
summary: "Low Birth Weight Linked to Increased Risk of Lifestyle Diseases, Opposition Party Proposes Measures to Prevent Exploitative Host Clubs, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for November 26th, 2023."
duration: "199"
length: "03:19"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "-2"
weather_sapporo_description: "Light snow showers"
weather_sapporo_image: "snowy.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "12"
weather_tokyo_description: "Patchy rain possible"
weather_tokyo_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "15"
weather_nagoya_description: "Sunny"
weather_nagoya_image: "sunny.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "14"
weather_osaka_description: "Sunny"
weather_osaka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "14"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Sunny"
weather_fukuoka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "24"
weather_naha_description: "Partly cloudy"
weather_naha_image: "cloudy1.png"

proverb_id: "32"
proverb_ja: "亀の甲より年の劫"
proverb_hiragana: "かめのこうよりとしのこう"
proverb_en: "The experience and wisdom accumulated over many years are valuable and precious."
proverb_lit: "Age's ordeal is superior to the turtle's shell."

currency_usd: "149.7"
currency_gbp: "188.0"
currency_eur: "163.4"
currency_cad: "109.3"
currency_aud: "98.2"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231126/k10014268931000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231126/k10014268951000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231126/k10014269081000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231125/k10014269031000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231125/k10014268921000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231125/k10014268601000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231125/k10014268791000.html"

news_story_title1: "“低体重で生まれると生活習慣病リスク高い”調査結果まとまる"
news_story_title2: "悪質ホストクラブ 立民が被害防止に向け法案骨子まとめる"
news_story_title3: "“容疑者と別人の顔写真を放送”東海テレビが謝罪 愛知"
news_story_title4: "両親と防波堤で釣り 小学2年生が海に転落し死亡 徳島 阿南"
news_story_title5: "目張りした部屋に遺体遺棄 死亡男性を装いSNSで親族に連絡か"
news_story_title6: "佐賀 鹿島の養鶏場 今季初の鳥インフルエンザ 約4万羽を処分へ"
news_story_title7: "「パパ活」情報 「Go Toイート」URLに表示 ドメイン流用の実態"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on November 26th, 2023. In today's news, a study conducted by a group at the National Center for Child Health and Development has found a link between low birth weight and an increased risk of lifestyle diseases. The group summarized the research results, stating that being born with low birth weight can lead to a higher risk of developing lifestyle diseases. They also emphasized that the risk can be reduced by paying attention to diet and exercise habits.

In response to a series of cases where women were charged exorbitant fees after using exploitative host clubs, the Constitutional Democratic Party has compiled an outline of a bill calling for the establishment of a consultation system by the national and local governments to prevent such incidents. The party aims to protect individuals from falling victim to fraudulent practices in the host club industry.

Moving on to other news, the local television station, Tokai TV Broadcasting, based in Nagoya, has issued an apology for broadcasting a photo of the wrong person as a suspect in a case where a body was found in an apartment in the city. The station admitted that the photo they aired as the suspect's face was actually that of a different person. They have expressed their regrets for the mistake.

Tragedy struck in Ainan, Tokushima, as a 2nd-grade elementary school boy fell into the sea from a breakwater while fishing with his parents. The boy was rushed to the hospital but unfortunately did not survive. The police are investigating the circumstances surrounding the incident.

In a disturbing case in Nagoya, a former employee of a shop owned by a 42-year-old man was arrested for disposing of the man's body in a room in an apartment building, which had been sealed off with tape. The suspect is believed to have posed as the deceased man on social media and contacted his relatives, even after his death. The police suspect that the suspect was trying to make it appear as if the man was still alive in order to delay the discovery of the crime. The investigation is ongoing.

On the agricultural front, the first case of avian influenza this season has been confirmed at a poultry farm in Kashima, Saga Prefecture. Genetic testing revealed the presence of the avian influenza virus after chickens were found dead at the farm. The Saga Prefectural Government is taking steps to cull approximately 40,000 chickens that were being raised at the farm to prevent the further spread of the disease.

Lastly, with the end of the 'Go To Eat' campaign, which aimed to stimulate the restaurant industry during the COVID-19 pandemic, it has come to light that the 'address' information from the websites set up by each local government is now in the hands of third parties. In some cases, when entering the URL that leads to these websites, users are redirected to information sites about 'sugar daddy' arrangements, where individuals receive money in exchange for meals or dates. Experts are warning about the potential risks and advising caution when accessing these websites. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be partly cloudy with a high of 12°C and a low of 10°C. There is a chance of rain throughout the day.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
