---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2023-11-25 09:32:43 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-11-25.mp3
summary: "Crackdown on Host Clubs as Police Strengthen Regulations and Increase Inspections | Increase in Children Expressing Suicidal Thoughts Amidst the Pandemic, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for November 25th, 2023."
duration: "222"
length: "03:42"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "-5"
weather_sapporo_description: "Blizzard"
weather_sapporo_image: "snowy.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "13"
weather_tokyo_description: "Cloudy"
weather_tokyo_image: "cloudy2.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "12"
weather_nagoya_description: "Sunny"
weather_nagoya_image: "sunny.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "11"
weather_osaka_description: "Overcast"
weather_osaka_image: "cloudy3.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "13"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Sunny"
weather_fukuoka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "22"
weather_naha_description: "Partly cloudy"
weather_naha_image: "cloudy1.png"

proverb_id: "8"
proverb_ja: "虻蜂とらず"
proverb_hiragana: "あぶはちとらず"
proverb_en: "Trying to catch two things at once and getting neither."
proverb_lit: "Catch neither the horsefly nor the bee."

currency_usd: "149.7"
currency_gbp: "188.0"
currency_eur: "163.4"
currency_cad: "109.3"
currency_aud: "98.2"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231125/k10014268341000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231125/k10014268061000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231125/k10014268641000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231125/k10014268331000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231125/k10014268541000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231125/k10014268351000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231125/k10014268591000.html"

news_story_title1: "悪質ホストクラブ 店舗への立ち入り 取締り強化を通達 警察庁"
news_story_title2: "「死にたい」と感じている子ども コロナ禍前の1.6倍に"
news_story_title3: "北日本中心にあすにかけ雪強まる 猛吹雪など交通影響に警戒を"
news_story_title4: "外国人技能実習制度 人材確保と育成を目的とする新制度へ"
news_story_title5: "国立大学法人法の改正案 国立大学協会が強い危惧示す声明発表"
news_story_title6: "対面販売必要な薬 薬剤師のビデオ通話でネット販売検討 厚労省"
news_story_title7: "目張りされた部屋に遺体 女の容疑者と被害者は9年前から知人か"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on November 25th, 2023. In today's news, the Japanese National Police Agency has issued a directive to all police headquarters across the country to strengthen regulations and increase inspections of host clubs. This comes in response to a series of incidents where female customers were charged exorbitant fees and coerced into engaging in prostitution under the pretext of repaying the host's expenses. The police aim to crack down on malicious establishments and protect the rights of customers.

Moving on to our next story, a recent survey conducted by the National Center for Child Health and Development and other groups has revealed a concerning increase in the number of young patients, aged up to their teens, expressing suicidal thoughts. The survey found that the number of patients who reported feeling 'I want to die' has increased by 1.6 times since before the pandemic. The impact of the COVID-19 crisis on children's mental health is a pressing issue that needs attention and support.

Now, let's turn our attention to the weather forecast. Strong winter pressure systems and cold air are intensifying snowfall in northern Japan. From tomorrow through the 26th, there is a possibility of severe snow accompanied by extremely strong winds, particularly in Hokkaido and other parts of northern Japan. Residents are advised to be cautious of blizzards, snowdrifts, and strong gusts that may affect transportation.

In other news, the Japanese government's expert panel on the Technical Intern Training Program has finalized a report recommending the establishment of a new system aimed at securing and nurturing foreign talent. The current system has faced criticism for human rights violations, prompting the need for a new approach. The future challenge lies in constructing a system that aligns with the objectives while ensuring understanding and cooperation from both the foreign trainees and the accepting organizations.

Next, the Japan Association of National Universities has expressed strong concerns over proposed amendments to the National University Corporation Act. The amendments include the mandatory establishment of an 'operational policy conference' responsible for determining mid-term plans and budgets for large-scale national university corporations. The association's chairman issued a statement highlighting the potential negative impact of these changes.

Shifting our focus to healthcare, the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare is considering the possibility of allowing online sales of certain medications that currently require face-to-face consultations with pharmacists. Under the proposed conditions, video calls between pharmacists and patients would be used for medication guidance, enabling online sales. This potential change aims to improve accessibility and convenience for patients while maintaining necessary safety measures.

And finally, an investigation into a case involving a body found in a room with taped-up doors in an apartment in Nagoya has revealed that the suspect, a former employee of a shop owned by the victim, had known the victim for approximately nine years. The police are conducting further inquiries to determine the circumstances surrounding the man's death. The details of this tragic incident are still being investigated.

That's all for today's news. Thank you for joining us on Japan Daily News. Stay tuned for more updates and have a great day! And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be partly cloudy with a high of 13°C and a low of 11°C. There is a 92% chance of sunshine and a 0% chance of rain. Enjoy your day!  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
