---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News - 2023-10-19"
date: 2023-10-19 08:05:50 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-10-19.mp3
summary: "Exhibition Commemorating the 100th Anniversary of the Great Kanto Earthquake and Invitation to the Autumn Garden Party, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for October 19th, 2023."
duration: "133"
length: "02:13"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_maxtemp: "24"
weather_description: "Clear"
weather_image: "sunny.png"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "17"
weather_sapporo_description: "Cloudy"
weather_sapporo_image: "cloudy2.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "24"
weather_tokyo_description: "Clear"
weather_tokyo_image: "sunny.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "23"
weather_nagoya_description: "Clear"
weather_nagoya_image: "sunny.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "24"
weather_osaka_description: "Partly cloudy"
weather_osaka_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "24"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Clear"
weather_fukuoka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "26"
weather_naha_description: "Clear"
weather_naha_image: "sunny.png"

proverb_id: "119"
proverb_ja: "論より証拠"
proverb_hiragana: "ろんよりしょうこ"
proverb_en: "Actions speak louder than words."
proverb_lit: "Evidence is better than discussion."

currency_usd: "149.7"
currency_gbp: "182.5"
currency_eur: "158.0"
currency_cad: "109.6"
currency_aud: "95.3"
---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on October 19th, 2023. In Yokohama, an exhibition commemorating the 100th anniversary of the Great Kanto Earthquake is being held, showcasing the impact of the disaster through the connection with ships and ports. Moving on to our next story, more than 1300 people, including shogi player Kato Kazunari and comedian Nishikawa Kiyoshi, have been invited to the Autumn Garden Party, which will take place next month. In other news, it has been revealed that Osaka's Ministry of Justice has recognized the actions of Sugiura Mizuho, a member of the Liberal Democratic Party, as a violation of human rights. Sugiura had made derogatory comments about three Korean women living in Osaka in her blog, referring to them as 'ethnic costume cosplayers.' Turning to a tragic incident in Chiba, a driver suspected of hit-and-run has been arrested after a light vehicle struck two men on a pedestrian sidewalk, resulting in one fatality. The vehicle was found abandoned about 450 meters away, and the 65-year-old suspect denies the allegations. Shifting gears, a national park in Nagaoka City, Niigata Prefecture, has implemented a system that utilizes digital technology to quickly detect bear sightings, enhancing safety measures within the park. Moving on to legal matters, the Supreme Court is set to make a decision on a request from individuals with gender identity disorder who are seeking to change their legal gender without undergoing sterilization surgery. The ruling, which will be announced on the 25th of this month, may provide new constitutional interpretations regarding the requirements for gender reassignment. Finally, the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare is planning to strengthen support for the establishment of a system to accept medically fragile children and children with severe disabilities in local childcare facilities. The aim is to enhance the specialized support necessary for these children to adapt to group living, including adding additional compensation for expert support in next year's revision of disability welfare service fees.   Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
