---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News - 2023-08-20"
date: 2023-08-20 08:08:42 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-08-20.mp3
summary: "Intense Heatwave Sweeps Japan | Teacher Arrested for Filming Students, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for August 20th, 2023."
duration: "142"
length: "02:22"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"
---

### Transcript

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on August 20th, 2023. In today's news, Japan is facing an intense heatwave with temperatures expected to reach dangerous levels in western and eastern regions. The cities of Osaka and Kyoto are forecasted to have a high of 38 degrees Celsius, prompting a severe heatstroke alert. It is advised to take precautions such as checking the heat index and avoiding outdoor activities.

Moving on to another story, a teacher from the prestigious juku (cram school) 'Yotsuya Otsuka' has been arrested for filming female students under the guise of providing guidance. The incident revealed that the students were called to the school even on days when there were no classes. The Metropolitan Police Department suspects the teacher planned the filming and is currently investigating the details.

Tragedy struck in Gifu as a 2nd-year junior high school student from Gifu City lost his life after being swept away in the Neokawa River. The student was playing with two classmates and their fathers when the accident occurred.

In response to the damage caused by Typhoon No. 7, the Minister of Disaster Management, Tani, visited the town of Kami in Hyogo Prefecture. The governor of Hyogo requested the designation of the typhoon as a 'severe disaster' to expedite relief efforts.

A tragic accident took place in Yokkaichi, Mie Prefecture, where a 2nd-year junior high school student riding a bicycle was fatally hit by a concrete mixer truck at an intersection.

At a symposium on cancer treatment held in Osaka, experts discussed the need to improve the availability of drugs for pediatric cancer patients. They highlighted the issue of 'drug lag,' which delays the approval of drugs used overseas in Japan. To address the limited variety of cancer drugs available for children, they emphasized the importance of establishing a system that allows the swift use of internationally approved medications in Japan.

Lastly, the scorching heat continues to grip Japan, with a week-long heatwave predicted for Tokyo and other regions in western and eastern Japan. It is crucial to remain vigilant against heatstroke and take necessary measures to stay cool and hydrated during this period of extreme heat. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be sunny with a high of 28°C and a low of 27°C.  And that's all for today's news. Thanks for listening to Japan Daily News.
