---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2023-12-04 09:07:51 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-12-04.mp3
summary: "Shinkansen Resumes Operation After Temporary Suspension due to Abnormal Display, Anime Creators Face Mental Health Issues, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for December 4th, 2023."
duration: "208"
length: "03:28"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "1"
weather_sapporo_description: "Sunny"
weather_sapporo_image: "sunny.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "13"
weather_tokyo_description: "Sunny"
weather_tokyo_image: "sunny.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "11"
weather_nagoya_description: "Sunny"
weather_nagoya_image: "sunny.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "12"
weather_osaka_description: "Sunny"
weather_osaka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "14"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Sunny"
weather_fukuoka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "20"
weather_naha_description: "Light rain shower"
weather_naha_image: "rainy1.png"

proverb_id: "55"
proverb_ja: "損して得取る"
proverb_hiragana: "そんしてとくとる"
proverb_en: "Sometimes you have to lose to win."
proverb_lit: "Gain by losing."

currency_usd: "148.1"
currency_gbp: "187.3"
currency_eur: "161.0"
currency_cad: "109.4"
currency_aud: "97.9"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231204/k10014277151000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231204/k10014277141000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231204/k10014276991000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231204/k10014277111000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231204/k10014277131000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231204/k10014276921000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231203/k10014276811000.html"

news_story_title1: "山陽新幹線 運転再開 車両に異常表示で一時見合わせ"
news_story_title2: "山陽新幹線 新大阪～岡山間の下り線で運転見合わせ"
news_story_title3: "アニメ制作者 17％がうつ病など心の病気なった可能性 団体調査"
news_story_title4: "日本に「化石賞」 “気候変動対策に消極的” 国際NGOが発表"
news_story_title5: "フィリピン諸島でM7.0の大地震 日本に被害の心配なし 気象庁"
news_story_title6: "【詳しく】日大アメフト部めぐり 林理事長がきょう午後会見へ"
news_story_title7: "インドネシアの火山で大規模噴火 日本への津波影響なし 気象庁"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on December 4th, 2023. In our top stories today:

The Shinkansen, Japan's high-speed train system, experienced a temporary suspension of service this morning. According to JR West Japan, the suspension was due to abnormal displays on the train cars, which prompted a halt in operations on certain sections of the Sanyo Shinkansen line. However, the issue was resolved, and train services resumed at 7:39 AM.

In related news, the Sanyo Shinkansen line also faced a separate disruption today. Due to another abnormal display on the train cars, train operations were temporarily suspended between Shin-Osaka and Okayama stations on the downline since 7 AM. JR West Japan conducted inspections to address the issue.

Moving on to the anime industry, a recent survey conducted by a group representing anime creators revealed concerning results. The survey focused on the mental health of individuals involved in anime production, and it found that 17% of the respondents had either experienced or potentially suffered from mental illnesses such as depression.

Turning to international news, a Japanese environmental NGO announced its decision to award Japan with the 'Fossil Award' during the United Nations conference on climate change, COP28. The NGO deemed Japan as being unenthusiastic in addressing climate change due to its efforts to extend the lifespan of coal-fired power plants and delay the transition to renewable energy sources.

In seismic news, a major earthquake with a magnitude of 7.0 struck the Philippines today. The Japan Meteorological Agency received information from the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center in Hawaii, stating that there is no concern for significant impact on Japan. Although some minor changes in sea level may occur along the Pacific coast from Hokkaido to Okinawa, no damage is expected. The Meteorological Agency issued a 'Northwest Pacific Tsunami Information' to neighboring countries, as there is a possibility of a tsunami near the epicenter. It is worth noting that the Philippines experienced a powerful earthquake measuring 7.7 near Mindanao Island two nights ago, resulting in tsunamis reaching the Pacific coast from Kyushu to Kanto and the Amami region.

Moving back to domestic news, Japan's prestigious Nihon University will hold a press conference this afternoon regarding the ongoing scandal surrounding their American football team. The university's president, Makiko Hayashi, along with other officials, will address the recent series of arrests among team members, as well as the resignation of the university's chancellor and vice-chancellor. The decision to disband the team will also be discussed. We will provide detailed coverage of the university's response, the reactions to the disbandment plan, and a comprehensive overview of the team's history.

Lastly, in international natural disaster news, a massive volcanic eruption occurred in Indonesia yesterday evening. While the Japan Meteorological Agency initially assessed the possibility of a tsunami resulting from the eruption, they have confirmed this morning that there is no tsunami threat to Japan. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be mostly clear with a temperature ranging from 9 to 13 degrees Celsius.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
