---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News - 2023-09-23"
date: 2023-09-23 08:23:31 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-09-23.mp3
summary: "Fare Increase for Keisei Railway to Promote Barrier-Free Access, and First Compensation Pension for Severe Long-Term COVID-19 Symptoms, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for September 23rd, 2023."
duration: "140"
length: "02:20"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"
---

### Transcript

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on September 23rd, 2023. In today's news, Keisei Railway, which connects Chiba Prefecture and Tokyo, has announced that it will raise the fare by 10 yen per ride starting next spring in order to promote barrier-free access, including the installation of platform screen doors at stations.

In other news, it has been revealed that a female worker who was infected with the novel coronavirus and suffered from severe and long-lasting symptoms has been granted compensation pension for occupational injuries. This is the first time such a pension has been awarded for COVID-19, and it is expected to provide relief to those who are suffering from long-term effects of the virus.

Moving on, in the case of the arrested doctor who allegedly received cash from a medical equipment manufacturer in Tokyo in exchange for using their products during surgeries at the National Cancer Center Hospital East in Kashiwa, it has been discovered through interviews with investigators that the doctor had also received several hundred thousand yen from the same manufacturer.

In another news, the Osaka-Kansai Expo organizing committee is currently adjusting the construction costs for the expo venue, with the estimated amount reaching around 230 billion yen, approximately 45 billion yen more than previously planned. The committee is in discussions with the government and business community to finalize the budget, and if the construction costs exceed expectations, it will mark the second time for the venue's budget to be increased.

Additionally, the evacuation order has been lifted in Fuji City, Shizuoka Prefecture, after issuing it to 11,630 households and 29,620 people living in the flood-prone areas along the Oi River.

Furthermore, due to the influence of warm and humid air and cold air in the upper atmosphere, the atmospheric conditions in eastern Japan have become extremely unstable. Please be cautious of flooding in low-lying areas and the rising water levels of rivers.

Lastly, the Odakyu Line has resumed operation on the Tama Line and Odawara Line between Mukogaoka-Yuen Station and Machida Station after suspending services due to a malfunction in the safety device at Shin-Yurigaoka Station earlier today.   And that's all for today's news. Thanks for listening to Japan Daily News.
