---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News - 2023-05-22"
date: 2023-05-22 08:05:38 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-05-22.mp3
summary: "Companies show consideration for sexual minorities, Yellow sand expected to affect transportation in Hokkaido to Chugoku region, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for May 22nd, 2023."
duration: "81"
length: "01:21"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"
---

### Transcript

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on May 22nd, 2023. The movement towards consideration for sexual minorities is spreading among companies, with a focus on creating a work environment where LGBTQ individuals can be themselves. Meanwhile, a wide range of yellow sand is expected to hit from Hokkaido to the Chugoku region, with particular attention to transportation disruptions. In Urayasu, Chiba, the police are investigating a fourth suspicious fire in a parking lot, suspected to be arson. In Fukushima Prefecture's Eiheiji Town, the operation of Level 4 vehicles capable of full autonomous driving under certain conditions has begun on public roads, the first of its kind in Japan. In a multi-vehicle accident involving five cars on the Chuo Expressway in Kitatsuru City, Yamanashi Prefecture, nine people, including children, were injured but none are in critical condition. In Shibuya, Tokyo, evacuees from Ukraine gathered to call for further support. Finally, a children's educational material was unveiled to promote understanding of the desire to stop and ride on escalators without walking. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, it will be mostly sunny with temperatures ranging from 21 to 23 degrees Celsius and a chance of patchy rain in the evening.  And that's all for today's news. Thanks for listening to Japan Daily News.
