---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News - 2023-10-15"
date: 2023-10-15 08:05:57 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-10-15.mp3
summary: "Shinkansen 0 Series Crowdfunding for Renovation | Heavy Rain and Thunderstorms Expected in Kanto and Izu Islands, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for October 15th, 2023."
duration: "137"
length: "02:17"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_maxtemp: "25"
weather_description: "Partly cloudy"
weather_image: "cloudy1.png"

proverb_id: "106"
proverb_ja: "ミイラ取りがミイラになる"
proverb_hiragana: "みいらとりがみいらになる"
proverb_en: "The one who goes to retrieve the mummy becomes a mummy"
proverb_lit: "The mummy retriever becomes a mummy."

currency_usd: "149.7"
currency_gbp: "182.1"
currency_eur: "157.5"
currency_cad: "109.4"
currency_aud: "94.5"
---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on October 15th, 2023. In today's news, the city of Akishima in Tokyo is aiming to turn the iconic Shinkansen 0 Series train, known as 'Dango-nose,' into a new local landmark by raising funds through crowdfunding. The train, which was previously used as a library, holds nostalgic memories for many residents.

Moving on to weather news, the Kanto coastal areas and Izu Islands are expected to experience very heavy rain accompanied by thunderstorms. This is due to the influence of a low-pressure system and a front, which will cause unstable atmospheric conditions. The Japan Meteorological Agency has issued warnings for potential flooding and landslides, urging residents to exercise caution.

In other news, a research team in the United States has announced findings regarding the long-term effects of COVID-19. They discovered specific changes in substances present in the blood of individuals with prolonged symptoms, such as a decrease in hormones related to stress responses. The team believes that these findings can contribute to the accurate diagnosis and development of treatment methods for COVID-19 long-haulers.

On the topic of North Korean abductions, it has been 21 years since five victims returned to Japan. One of the returnees, Kaoru Hasuike, expressed the urgency of resolving the issue while the parents of the elderly victims are still alive. Hasuike called for concrete efforts from the Japanese government and public support.

In Nagoya, a man in his 60s was arrested on suspicion of attempted murder after two people, a man and a woman, were injured with a knife at a community center in Atsuta Ward. Fortunately, both victims were taken to the hospital and are expected to recover.

Tragically, an elderly man was found dead in the mountains of Iiyama City, Nagano Prefecture. The police suspect that he was attacked by a bear after getting caught in a trap.

Lastly, there was a temporary suspension of train services on the Keio Line between Chofu and Keio Tama Center due to a personal accident at Wakabadai Station. However, service has now resumed.

That's all for today's news. Thank you for listening to Japan Daily News. Stay tuned for more updates.   Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
