---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News - 2023-06-29"
date: 2023-06-29 09:09:02 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-06-29.mp3
summary: "Fatal Fire in Fukui and Man Swept Away in Shiga River, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for June 29th, 2023."
duration: "107"
length: "01:47"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"
---

### Transcript

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on June 29th, 2023. In today's news, a fatal fire broke out in Fukui City, resulting in the death of one person and two others missing. The fire occurred in the early morning, and the cause is currently under investigation. Moving on to Shiga Prefecture, a man was swept away in the Ane River due to heavy rain. The police are conducting a search operation to locate the missing individual. The unstable weather conditions continue as atmospheric instability is expected from western Japan to Tohoku, with the possibility of sudden weather changes, including thunderstorms, strong gusts of wind, and heavy localized rainfall. On a different note, a documentary film about three photographers who captured the aftermath of the Great Kanto Earthquake 100 years ago has been completed and premiered in Tokyo. In other news, a woman in her 40s was arrested in Chiba Prefecture for the alleged murder of her mother, whose dismembered body was found in their apartment. JR East has resumed train services on the Sobu Main Line and Narita Line after temporary suspensions due to a fatal accident. Lastly, the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare is considering providing subsidies of up to 500,000 yen per employee to companies that assist in eliminating the income threshold that affects social insurance premiums and reduces take-home pay. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be partly cloudy with a high of 26°C and a low of 25°C. There is a 36% chance of high temperature, 35% chance of overcast, and 0% chance of rain. The UV index is 6, indicating moderate UV levels. Enjoy your day!  And that's all for today's news. Thanks for listening to Japan Daily News.
