---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News - 2023-06-08"
date: 2023-06-08 08:01:18 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-06-08.mp3
summary: "COVID-19 cases continue to rise one month after the transition to Category 5 status, Fisheries Agency recommends adapting to changes in the marine environment in response to declining fishing, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for June 8th, 2023."
duration: "140"
length: "02:20"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"
---

### Transcript

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on June 8th, 2023. The Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare reported that COVID-19 cases continue to rise one month after the transition to Category 5 status. The Fisheries Agency's study group has recommended that fishing species be combined and aquaculture be promoted to adapt to changes in the marine environment in response to the continuing decline in fishing, such as sardines and salmon, in the waters near Japan. The Nagano District Court will issue a verdict today in the case of the ski tour bus accident in which 15 people, including university students, died seven years ago in Karuizawa, Nagano Prefecture. The focus of the case is whether the accident could have been predicted. Heavy rain is expected in western Japan and the Pacific coast of eastern Japan from the 9th, and caution is advised for landslides and other disasters, especially in areas that were affected by the record-breaking rainfall last weekend. The Tokyo Metropolitan Police Department is investigating the circumstances surrounding the death of a 48-year-old woman from Aichi Prefecture, whose body was found in a grove of trees in Akita City. It is believed that the woman had consulted with acquaintances about a customer who used drugs in her job, and that the customer may have been one of the five men, including a former member of a violent group, who were arrested on suspicion of abandoning the body. The Japan Meteorological Agency will conduct an experiment from the 8th to predict the occurrence of linear precipitation zones using the supercomputer Fugaku, based on actual weather conditions nationwide. The Fukuoka District Court will issue a ruling on a group lawsuit filed by same-sex couples in five locations across Japan, alleging that the lack of recognition of same-sex marriage violates the Constitution. A documentary film about President Zelensky was shown at Waseda University on the 7th to encourage consideration of the current situation in Ukraine, which continues to be invaded by Russia. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, it will be partly cloudy with a high of 23 degrees Celsius and a low of 20 degrees Celsius. There is no chance of rain and the UV index is 5.  And that's all for today's news. Thanks for listening to Japan Daily News.
