---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News - 2023-05-16"
date: 2023-05-16 08:31:47 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-05-16.mp3
summary: "Police investigate series of arson attacks targeting motorcycles in Chiba, Body part found near Hokkaido lake where man went missing, believed to be bear attack victim, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for May 16th, 2023."
duration: "119"
length: "01:59"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"
---

### Transcript

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on May 16th, 2023. In Chiba, police are investigating a series of arson attacks in a condominium parking lot, suspecting that the fires may have been started by targeting motorcycles. Meanwhile, in Hokkaido, police have found a body part near a lake where a man in his 50s had gone missing while fishing, and believe that he may have been attacked by a bear. In the creative industry, a survey conducted by an industry group found that over 90% of creators are concerned about AI infringing on their rights. The House of Councillors' Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism Committee will not convene tomorrow due to a disagreement between the ruling and opposition parties over a leaked personnel information email from the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. The Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology has notified all education committees nationwide to conduct safety inspections of schools following an accident in which a student was seriously injured by a protruding nail on a school playground in Tokyo. In Hokkaido, a middle school student is in critical condition after drowning in a river while playing catch with a friend. In other news, it has been revealed that the suspect in the explosion near Prime Minister Kishida during a speech last month had purchased fertilizer, which can be used as a raw material for gunpowder, online since around November of last year. Lastly, major dairy company Snow Brand Megmilk has announced that it will raise prices on 94 products, including milk and cheese, from July due to the continued rise in raw material prices. Today in Tokyo, it will be partly cloudy with a high of 21°C (70°F) and a low of 18°C (64°F). There is no chance of rain and the sun will be out for 14 hours.  And that's all for today's news. Thanks for listening to Japan Daily News.
