---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News - 2023-05-15"
date: 2023-05-15 08:08:18 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-05-15.mp3
summary: "Okinawa's burden of national security increases on the 51st anniversary of its return to Japan, Tokyo Metropolitan Government investigates psychiatric hospital after nurse arrest for patient abuse, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for May 15th, 2023."
duration: "86"
length: "01:26"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"
---

### Transcript

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on May 15th, 2023. On the 51st anniversary of Okinawa's return to Japan, the burden of national security is becoming heavier with the deployment and strengthening of new Self-Defense Forces units. Meanwhile, Tokyo Metropolitan Government has started an investigation to confirm the intentions of patients for discharge or transfer from the psychiatric hospital in Hachioji City where a nurse was arrested for assaulting patients. In Nagoya, a 19-year-old suspect was arrested for drunk driving and causing a fatal accident where three people died and two were injured. Earthquakes have been occurring frequently in the vicinity of Hachijojima Island, but there is no concern for damage from tsunamis. However, due to atmospheric instability, severe thunderstorms, tornadoes, and heavy rain are expected in western Japan tonight. In response to allegations of sexual harassment by Johnny Kitagawa, the late president of Johnny & Associates, the current president has apologized to the victims and released a document outlining the company's position. Finally, South Korean President Yoon Seok-yeol has announced that he will visit Hiroshima during his three-day stay in Japan for the G7 summit, where he will attend a meeting with leaders of the seven member countries and related countries and visit the Korean atomic bomb victims' memorial with Prime Minister Fumio Kishida.  And that's all for today's news. Thanks for listening to Japan Daily News.
