---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News - 2023-06-11"
date: 2023-06-11 10:09:09 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-06-11.mp3
summary: "Man arrested for attempting to kill his father in Saitama, Three robbery suspects to be arrested again for additional charges, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for June 11th, 2023."
duration: "109"
length: "01:49"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"
---

### Transcript

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on June 11th, 2023. A 28-year-old man was arrested in Saitama for attempting to kill his 60-year-old father with a knife. The father died in the hospital, and the police have changed the charges to murder. In another case related to robbery, three 19-year-old suspects who were previously arrested for robbing an elderly woman in Saitama are set to be arrested again for robbery, injury, and confinement. The trial for the Kyoto Animation arson case is set to begin in September, and the prosecution held an explanation meeting for the victim's families, mainly focusing on the defendant's criminal responsibility. Two planes collided on the taxiway at Haneda Airport, but there were no injuries. A man in his 20s drowned in a pond in a sauna facility in Nikko, Tochigi. The Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry, Hiroshi Kajiyama, met with fishing industry representatives from three prefectures to discuss the plan to release diluted treated water from the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant into the ocean while gaining local understanding. In response to the increasing number of young people participating in illegal "underground part-time jobs," a crime prevention class was held at a police station in Tokyo, where members of the popular dance vocal group "EXILE" warned local high school students. In Aichi, which suffered extensive damage from heavy rain last weekend, the city of Toyohashi opened a consultation window on their day off to assist in the application process for disaster certificates and provide information on support measures. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, it will be mostly cloudy with a high of 24°C and a low of 22°C, and there is a chance of light rain showers throughout the day.  And that's all for today's news. Thanks for listening to Japan Daily News.
