---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News - 2023-08-28"
date: 2023-08-28 10:43:15 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-08-28.mp3
summary: "Actor Ayato Nagayama Admits Charges of Violating Cannabis Control Law / Tornadoes Hit Niigata Prefecture, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for August 28th, 2023."
duration: "135"
length: "02:15"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"
---

### Transcript

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on August 28th, 2023. In our first news story, actor Ayato Nagayama has admitted to charges of violating the Cannabis Control Law. The trial, held at the Tokyo District Court, saw Nagayama respond to the judge's question about the accuracy of the indictment by stating that there were no mistakes and acknowledging the charges against him.

Moving on to our next story, the Japan Meteorological Agency has issued a tornado warning for the Shimoetsu, Chuoetsu, Joetsu, and Sado regions in Niigata Prefecture. It is believed that tornadoes and gusty winds have occurred in these areas.

In other news, the Keikyu Line, which had suspended operations between the Kamiooka and Kanazawa Bunko stations due to a personal injury incident at the Byobuura and Sugita stations in Yokohama's Isogo Ward, has resumed service.

Looking ahead, today marks one year until the opening of the Paris Paralympic Games. The Tokyo Paralympics, which were held under exceptional circumstances with limited spectators due to the COVID-19 pandemic, increased awareness of parasports through the performances of the athletes. As we approach the Paris Games, the challenge lies in further advancing the realization of an inclusive society.

In international news, the largest escort vessel of the Japan Maritime Self-Defense Force, the Izumo, has conducted joint exercises with the United States, Australia, and the Philippines in the South China Sea. This comes as China continues to assert its presence in the region, and the exercise aimed to confirm cooperation among the four nations.

Lastly, following the release of diluted treated water from the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant, incidents of vandalism, such as throwing stones and eggs, have been reported at two Japanese schools and there have been protests and harassing phone calls to the Japanese embassy in China. As a result, security measures have been strengthened to address these concerns. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be mostly sunny with a high of 28°C and a low of 26°C. There is a 80% chance of rain showers throughout the day.  And that's all for today's news. Thanks for listening to Japan Daily News.
