---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2023-12-02 08:54:06 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-12-02.mp3
summary: "US Air Force Halts Osprey Flights in Japan | Stove Train Begins Winter Service, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for December 2nd, 2023."
duration: "185"
length: "03:05"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "0"
weather_sapporo_description: "Light snow"
weather_sapporo_image: "snowy.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "13"
weather_tokyo_description: "Sunny"
weather_tokyo_image: "sunny.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "8"
weather_nagoya_description: "Patchy rain possible"
weather_nagoya_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "12"
weather_osaka_description: "Sunny"
weather_osaka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "10"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Sunny"
weather_fukuoka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "19"
weather_naha_description: "Patchy rain possible"
weather_naha_image: "rainy1.png"

proverb_id: "12"
proverb_ja: "石橋をたたいて渡る"
proverb_hiragana: "いしばしをたたいてわたる"
proverb_en: "Being overly cautious."
proverb_lit: "Hitting a stone bridge before crossing."

currency_usd: "148.1"
currency_gbp: "187.3"
currency_eur: "161.0"
currency_cad: "109.4"
currency_aud: "97.9"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231202/k10014275661000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231202/k10014275621000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231202/k10014275671000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231202/k10014275391000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231202/k10014275521000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231202/k10014275451000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231202/k10014275611000.html"

news_story_title1: "日本で空軍のオスプレイ飛行停止 海兵隊は継続  米国防総省"
news_story_title2: "津軽鉄道 冬の訪れを告げる「ストーブ列車」の運行が始まる"
news_story_title3: "JR青梅線 運転再開"
news_story_title4: "18歳女性遺体遺棄事件 女性のアカウントで料理の宅配注文か"
news_story_title5: "二階派も パーティー収入不記載 議員側にキックバックの疑い"
news_story_title6: "オスプレイ墜落事故から3日 不明の乗員7人と機体の捜索続く"
news_story_title7: "走行中の大型トラックからタイヤ外れ 男性作業員死亡 青森"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on December 2nd, 2023. In our first news story, the US Department of Defense has announced the suspension of Osprey flights operated by the US Air Force in Japan. This decision comes after an Osprey transport aircraft crashed off the coast of Yakushima Island in Kagoshima Prefecture. However, flights of Ospreys operated by the Marine Corps and other branches will continue as usual.

Moving on to our second headline, the Tsugaru Railway has started operating the 'Stove Train' to mark the arrival of winter. This special train connects Goshogawara City and Nakadomari Town in Aomori Prefecture. Passengers can enjoy the cozy atmosphere on board with stoves keeping them warm during the cold season.

Next, we have an update on the JR Ome Line. The train service between Hagiyama Station and Okutama Station, which was temporarily suspended due to construction delays, has now resumed. Commuters can once again travel on both the up and down lines.

In a disturbing incident, the body of an 18-year-old woman was found in Yamanashi Prefecture, and her romantic partner has been arrested on suspicion of abandoning her remains. Investigations have revealed that approximately one month after the presumed time of abandonment, food was ordered through the woman's account using a delivery service and was delivered to the suspect's residence. The Metropolitan Police Department is currently examining the details, including the possibility that the suspect manipulated the woman's mobile phone.

Shifting gears to politics, it appears that not only the Abe faction, but also the Nikai faction, known as the 'Shisai-kai,' is facing allegations of not reporting income related to political fundraising parties. It is suspected that members of the factions did not include the income exceeding the sales quota of party tickets in their financial reports. The excess funds were allegedly given as kickbacks to the politicians. The Tokyo District Public Prosecutor's Office's special investigation department is conducting an inquiry into the flow of funds and other related matters.

Turning back to the Osprey crash incident, which occurred three days ago, the search for the seven missing crew members and parts of the aircraft continues. The crash took place off the coast of Yakushima Island in Kagoshima Prefecture. The 10th Regional Coast Guard Headquarters is focusing its search efforts on the waters near Yakushima Airport, where some possible signals from the aircraft have been detected.

Lastly, a tragic accident occurred on the Hachinohe Expressway in Hachinohe City, Aomori Prefecture. A tire detached from a moving large truck and struck a male worker who was performing roadside maintenance. The man was pronounced dead at the hospital. Police are investigating the details of the accident.

That concludes today's news report from Japan Daily News. Thank you for listening. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be clear with a high of 13°C and a low of 8°C. Enjoy a sunny day with 10 hours of sunshine!  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
