---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News - 2023-09-26"
date: 2023-09-26 08:40:05 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-09-26.mp3
summary: "Train Services Resume After Inspections and Accidents / Government Implements Measures to Address Income Disparity, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for September 26th, 2023."
duration: "117"
length: "01:57"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"
---

### Transcript

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on September 26th, 2023. In today's news, train services in Tokyo have resumed after temporary suspensions due to inspections and accidents. The JR Keihin-Tohoku Line, which had been suspended between Omiya and Ofuna stations for track point inspections at Kamata Station, has now resumed full operation at around 6:33 am. Similarly, the Tsukuba Express, which had suspended services on the entire line following a personal accident at the Kenkyugakuen Station, has partially resumed operations between Moriya Station in Ibaraki Prefecture and Akihabara Station in Tokyo since 6:20 am. However, services between Tsukuba Station and Moriya Station are still suspended.

In other news, the Japanese government has announced measures to address income disparity. Starting next month, the government will subsidize companies that strive to ensure that employees' take-home pay does not decrease even if their annual income exceeds a certain level. However, considering concerns about fairness, the government also plans to thoroughly review the system in the future.

Moving on, a female police officer in her 30s from the Hyogo Prefectural Police Headquarters has received disciplinary action for engaging in a side business. The officer had been creating stickers for cars and selling them on social media. She had earned a total of approximately 1.3 million yen over a period of four years. The disciplinary action was taken by her superiors.

Lastly, Crown Prince Akishino and Princess Kiko have returned to Japan after an official visit to Vietnam. The visit marked the 50th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Japan and Vietnam. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be sunny with a maximum temperature of 25°C and a minimum temperature of 24°C.  And that's all for today's news. Thanks for listening to Japan Daily News.
