---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News - 2023-05-02"
date: 2023-05-02 08:02:35 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-05-02.mp3
summary: "Japanese man on his own means out of Sudan, Keio Uni predicts antibody reduction from COVID-19 vaccine, helicopter recovery after delay, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for May 2nd, 2023."
duration: "134"
length: "02:14"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"
---

### Transcript

Welcome to Japan Daily News on May 2, 2023. In Sudan, a Japanese man who worked as the head of a local team for the international NGO "Doctors Without Borders" spoke to NHK about the tense situation that forced him to evacuate the country through his own means...

Researchers at Keio University have developed a method to predict the degree of antibody reduction after receiving the COVID-19 vaccine with high accuracy, which can help determine the timing of additional doses.

The recovery of the helicopter that crashed in Okinawa last month, resulting in the deaths of six people, has been delayed until after May 2. A former Ground Self-Defense Force pilot, Shigeru Yamaguchi, explained the situation in a video.

Another person who was believed to be a member of the Ground Self-Defense Force team involved in the helicopter crash in Okinawa last month was pulled from the sea on May 1, bringing the total number of confirmed deaths to six.

Some evacuation orders were lifted on May 1 in parts of Iitate Village, Fukushima Prefecture, including the "specific recovery and revitalization base areas" where the government and the village have been advancing decontamination and infrastructure improvements.

In a case of fraudulent use of a smartphone payment service, the Kanagawa Prefectural Police found 2.9 million IDs and passwords and one billion email addresses stored on the Chinese group's computer. The police have re-arrested a company executive who is believed to be the mastermind behind the scheme.

During a science experiment at a primary school in Shibata City, Niigata Prefecture, five children complained of headaches and were taken to the hospital. They have since recovered and are reportedly in good health.

The Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare will increase the medical fee for patients with COVID-19 "sequelae" to encourage more medical institutions to accept patients in the fifth category and to establish a system for providing medical treatment at local medical institutions. Medical institutions that accept such patients stress the importance of understanding and support from their families and surroundings. And that's all for today's news. Thanks for listening to Japan Daily News.
