---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2023-11-05 07:50:13 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-11-05.mp3
summary: "Chinese Vessels Enter Japanese Waters in Okinawa and University Student Found Dead in Bear Attack, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for November 5th, 2023."
duration: "191"
length: "03:11"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "10"
weather_sapporo_description: "Partly cloudy"
weather_sapporo_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "24"
weather_tokyo_description: "Partly cloudy"
weather_tokyo_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "25"
weather_nagoya_description: "Sunny"
weather_nagoya_image: "sunny.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "27"
weather_osaka_description: "Sunny"
weather_osaka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "25"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Sunny"
weather_fukuoka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "27"
weather_naha_description: "Patchy rain possible"
weather_naha_image: "rainy1.png"

proverb_id: "100"
proverb_ja: "豚に真珠"
proverb_hiragana: "ぶたにしんじゅ"
proverb_en: "Giving something valuable to someone who can't appreciate it."
proverb_lit: "Pearls before swine."

currency_usd: "149.5"
currency_gbp: "183.8"
currency_eur: "159.7"
currency_cad: "109.1"
currency_aud: "97.0"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231105/k10014247601000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231105/k10014247511000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231105/k10014247531000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231105/k10014247381000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231105/k10014247431000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231104/k10014247311000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20231104/k10014247351000.html"

news_story_title1: "沖縄 尖閣沖 中国海警局の船 新たに1隻が領海侵入 計3隻に"
news_story_title2: "北海道南部 山で発見の遺体は函館の大学生 クマが襲った可能性"
news_story_title3: "柿沢氏側 区議に渡そうとした現金 “会派などで異なる金額”"
news_story_title4: "非正規雇用キャリアアップ支援 リスキリング事業開始へ 厚労省"
news_story_title5: "ネパール 地震で157人死亡 地震相次ぎ多くの被災者が支援待つ"
news_story_title6: "【詳細】日本シリーズ 第6戦 阪神負け3勝3敗に 関西各地の動き"
news_story_title7: "AIアートグランプリ開催 動画やゲームなど124作品の応募 東京"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on November 5th, 2023. In our top news stories today, tensions rise in the waters near the Senkaku Islands in Okinawa as Chinese vessels continue to enter Japanese waters. Early this morning, one additional ship from the Chinese Coast Guard trespassed into Japanese territory, making it a total of three vessels that have been sailing near Japanese fishing boats or drifting in the area. The Japan Coast Guard has issued multiple warnings for the ships to leave Japanese waters.

Moving on to another news story, a tragic incident occurred in the mountains of southern Hokkaido. The body found on the mountain has been identified as a 22-year-old male university student from Hakodate. Police suspect that a bear may have attacked the student, as two other hikers in the same area were injured by a bear. Investigations are ongoing to determine the exact circumstances.

In other news, an investigation by the Tokyo District Public Prosecutor's Office reveals that a member of the House of Representatives, Mito Kakizawa, and his associates attempted to distribute varying amounts of cash to several ward council members in Tokyo's Koto Ward before the district mayoral election in April. Kakizawa's side claims that the cash distribution was part of a goodwill gesture during the concurrent ward council election and not related to bribery in the mayoral election.

Shifting gears, the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare has announced plans to launch a reskilling program called 'Career Up Support for Non-Regular Employment.' The program aims to provide opportunities for non-regular employees to enhance their skills and careers through face-to-face and online vocational training.

In international news, Nepal continues to grapple with the aftermath of a devastating earthquake. The earthquake, which occurred in the early hours of the 4th, has claimed the lives of at least 157 people. The region has experienced subsequent tremors, leaving many affected individuals in need of assistance and support.

And in sports, the Japan Series between the Hanshin Tigers and the Orix Buffaloes is heating up. In the sixth game of the series, Orix pitcher Yudai Yamamoto secured a complete game victory, bringing the series to a tie at three wins each. The decisive seventh game will determine the champion. Fans from both teams showed their support throughout the game, and the streets of Osaka's Minami district remained calm and orderly.

Lastly, an AI art competition was held in Tokyo's Akihabara district, showcasing various art pieces created using artificial intelligence. Among the 124 submissions, a Tokyo-based artist's work depicting 23 avatars of himself emerged as the grand prize winner. The competition celebrated the fusion of technology and creativity in the art world.

That's all for today's news. Thank you for tuning in to Japan Daily News. Stay informed and have a great day! And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be partly cloudy with temperatures ranging from 20 to 24 degrees Celsius.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
