---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News - 2023-10-12"
date: 2023-10-12 08:00:25 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2023-10-12.mp3
summary: "Tragic Fire Claims Lives of Elderly Couple in Saitama, Prescription Drug Shortage in 90% of Medical Institutions, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for October 12th, 2023."
duration: "161"
length: "02:41"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_maxtemp: "22"
weather_description: "Patchy rain possible"
weather_image: "rainy1.png"

proverb_id: "86"
proverb_ja: "濡れぬ先の傘"
proverb_hiragana: "ぬれぬさきのかさ"
proverb_en: "It's important to prepare beforehand when starting something."
proverb_lit: "Umbrella before getting wet."

currency_usd: "148.8"
currency_gbp: "183.2"
currency_eur: "158.0"
currency_cad: "109.4"
currency_aud: "95.5"
---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on October 12th, 2023. In tragic news, a house fire occurred in Kumagaya, Saitama on the night of October 11th, resulting in the discovery of two bodies. The victims are believed to be a couple in their 70s who were living in the house. The police are currently working to confirm their identities and investigate the circumstances of the fire.

Moving on to healthcare, a survey conducted by the Japan Medical Association has revealed that 90% of medical institutions that prescribe medication are facing difficulties in obtaining necessary drugs. This shortage comes amidst an ongoing supply crisis for pharmaceuticals.

Shifting gears, the government's earthquake investigation committee has issued a warning regarding recent seismic activity near Torishima, part of the Izu Islands. While the cause of the earthquakes remains unknown, the committee has noted at least 14 occurrences. They have advised caution as even small-scale earthquakes in this area have been known to trigger tsunamis.

In a disturbing case in Nagano, a former employee of a nursing home in Shiojiri City has been arrested for allegedly administering drugs to a 77-year-old female resident, resulting in her death. During the investigation, substances similar to the psychiatric medication taken by the former employee were found in the victim's body. The police suspect that the former employee had administered the medication to the victim.

Turning to entertainment news, popular comedian Toshifumi Fujiwara, known as a member of the comedy duo FUJIWARA, is facing allegations of a hit-and-run accident. It is reported that Fujiwara caused a collision with another vehicle at an intersection in Shibuya, Tokyo, and fled the scene. His agency has announced that he will be suspending his entertainment activities for the time being.

In a significant development regarding the controversial Unification Church, the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology has decided to formally request the dissolution of the organization. The request will be made to the court after considering the opinions of the Religious Corporation Deliberation Council, which will convene on October 12th.

Lastly, a system malfunction in the interbank network known as Zenkin-net has caused delays in fund transfers between financial institutions. The processing of over 5 million transactions was affected between October 10th and 11th. The organization responsible for operating the system is working towards restoring full functionality by 8:30 AM.   Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
