---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-03-09 08:15:40 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-03-09.mp3
summary: "Heavy Snowfall Warning in Niigata and Nagano, Bribery Scandal in Chiyoda Ward, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for March 9th, 2024."
duration: "192"
length: "03:12"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "-0"
weather_sapporo_description: "Moderate or heavy snow showers"
weather_sapporo_image: "snowy.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "10"
weather_tokyo_description: "Sunny"
weather_tokyo_image: "sunny.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "7"
weather_nagoya_description: "Partly Cloudy "
weather_nagoya_image: "unknown.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "7"
weather_osaka_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_osaka_image: "unknown.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "8"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Sunny"
weather_fukuoka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "16"
weather_naha_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_naha_image: "unknown.png"

proverb_id: "60"
proverb_ja: "忠言耳に逆らう"
proverb_hiragana: "ちゅうげんみみにさからう"
proverb_en: "Honest advice is often unwelcome to the ears because it points out our faults."
proverb_lit: "Good advice grates on the ear."

currency_usd: "147.3"
currency_gbp: "189.0"
currency_eur: "161.0"
currency_cad: "109.5"
currency_aud: "97.8"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240309/k10014384071000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240309/k10014384261000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240309/k10014384221000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240309/k10014384201000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240309/k10014384111000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240309/k10014384231000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240308/k10014383361000.html"

news_story_title1: "新潟 長野 関東北部の山沿い大雪のおそれ 交通影響に十分注意"
news_story_title2: "東京 千代田区官製談合事件 あっせん収賄容疑 元区議 再逮捕へ"
news_story_title3: "1歳男児死亡 ひき逃げの疑いでトラック運転手逮捕 埼玉 東松山"
news_story_title4: "オスプレイの飛行停止措置解除 米国内で再開に懸念の声も"
news_story_title5: "天皇ご一家 日赤関係者から被災地の支援活動などの説明受ける"
news_story_title6: "【地震速報】千葉県で震度4 津波の心配なし"
news_story_title7: "【追悼の声】漫画家 鳥山明さん死去 68歳 「DRAGON BALL」など"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on March 9th, 2024. In today's news, the Japan Meteorological Agency has issued a warning for heavy snowfall in Niigata and Nagano, as well as the northern regions of the Kanto area. Due to the influence of a winter pressure system, snowfall is expected to be particularly heavy along mountainous areas. The agency is urging people to be cautious of the impact on transportation, including snow accumulation and icy road conditions.

Moving on to our next story, a bribery scandal has emerged in Chiyoda Ward, Tokyo. A former member of the ward council is set to be re-arrested on charges of bribery and mediation. It has been revealed that the former council member leaked bidding information for construction projects and received gift certificates from contractors in return. The Tokyo Metropolitan Police Department is firm in its decision to re-arrest the individual on suspicion of bribery and mediation.

In other news, a tragic hit-and-run incident has occurred in Higashimatsuyama, Saitama. A 58-year-old truck driver has been arrested on suspicion of a hit-and-run accident that resulted in the death of a one-year-old boy. The driver allegedly struck the child with their truck and fled the scene. The police have taken the driver into custody on charges of hit-and-run.

Shifting gears, the flight suspension of Osprey aircraft has been lifted by the United States military, despite concerns about safety. The suspension was put in place following an accident involving an Osprey transport plane off the coast of Yakushima, Kagoshima Prefecture, last November. However, a series of accidents involving Ospreys has raised concerns, and there are voices of apprehension within the United States regarding the resumption of flights.

On a different note, the Imperial Family has received a briefing on relief efforts and activities in the disaster-stricken areas from officials of the Japanese Red Cross Society. The Emperor and Empress were informed by the president of the Red Cross and medical staff who were involved in providing assistance in the aftermath of the Noto Peninsula earthquake.

In seismic news, an earthquake with a magnitude of 4 was recorded in Chiba Prefecture. The earthquake occurred at around 4:26 am on the 9th of March. The eastern coast of Chiba Prefecture has been experiencing increased seismic activity, prompting the government's Earthquake Research Committee to issue a warning.

Lastly, we mourn the passing of renowned manga artist Akira Toriyama at the age of 68. Toriyama, known for creating popular works such as 'Dragon Ball' and 'Dr. Slump,' passed away on the 1st of this month due to an acute subdural hematoma. We remember Toriyama's illustrious career and gather reactions from around the world in tribute to his legacy. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be partly cloudy with a maximum temperature of 10 degrees Celsius and a minimum temperature of 5 degrees Celsius. There is a chance of rain in the morning, but it will be mostly dry throughout the day. The UV index is 3, so it's advisable to wear sunscreen. Overall, it will be a cool and partly cloudy day in Tokyo.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
