---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-06-04 08:28:17 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-06-04.mp3
summary: "Tragic Elevator Accident Remembered After 18 Years; House Fire Claims Lives of Couple, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for June 4th, 2024."
duration: "173"
length: "02:53"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "16"
weather_sapporo_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_sapporo_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "25"
weather_tokyo_description: "Partly Cloudy"
weather_tokyo_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "26"
weather_nagoya_description: "Sunny"
weather_nagoya_image: "sunny.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "25"
weather_osaka_description: "Partly Cloudy"
weather_osaka_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "21"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_fukuoka_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "25"
weather_naha_description: "Sunny"
weather_naha_image: "sunny.png"

proverb_id: "10"
proverb_ja: "案ずるより産むが易し"
proverb_hiragana: "あんずるよりうむがやすし"
proverb_en: "Doing is easier than worrying."
proverb_lit: "Giving birth is easier than worrying about it."

currency_usd: "157.0"
currency_gbp: "199.6"
currency_eur: "170.1"
currency_cad: "115.1"
currency_aud: "104.4"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240604/k10014470211000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240604/k10014470311000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240604/k10014470241000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240604/k10014470231000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240604/k10014470061000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240604/k10014470071000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240603/k10014469151000.html"

news_story_title1: "エレベーターの死亡事故から18年 高校生の母親が講演"
news_story_title2: "栃木 小山 住宅が全焼 廊下と寝室に倒れていた2人死亡 夫婦か"
news_story_title3: "ダイコクドラッグ 転売疑いの客に免税販売か 国税局が追徴課税"
news_story_title4: "最高裁 個人情報900人漏えい アドレス見える状態でメール送信"
news_story_title5: "皇室で最高齢 三笠宮妃の百合子さま 101歳に"
news_story_title6: "国交省 トヨタ本社に立ち入り検査へ 車の性能試験で不正"
news_story_title7: "関東甲信 断続的に激しい雨 土砂災害や浸水に十分注意"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on June 4th, 2024. In Tokyo's Minato Ward, a mother gave a speech on the 18th anniversary of a tragic elevator accident in which a high school student lost their life. The mother urged society to prioritize the protection of lives, stating that it was not just an isolated incident. Moving on to another tragic incident, a house fire in Oyama, Tochigi Prefecture, claimed the lives of a couple. The fire completely engulfed the house, and although the couple was rushed to the hospital, they unfortunately did not survive. The police are currently investigating the cause of the fire and trying to reach out to their relatives.

Switching gears, a chain of drugstores called Daikokudrug in Osaka has been accused of repeatedly selling duty-free goods to Chinese tourists suspected of reselling them. The Osaka Regional Taxation Bureau pointed out the inappropriate sales and imposed a total of 300 million yen in additional taxes on the two companies operating the stores. This incident sheds light on the issue of tax evasion through duty-free shopping.

Moving on to a serious breach of personal information, the Supreme Court disclosed that the email addresses of 900 individuals were leaked due to a mistake during a mass email sending. The mistake occurred when the addresses were visible to all recipients. The Supreme Court is currently investigating the matter and taking appropriate measures to address the breach.

In the imperial family, Her Imperial Highness Princess Yuriko of Mikasa, who holds the title of the oldest member of the royal family, celebrated her 101st birthday. Princess Yuriko is a prominent figure in the imperial household and her longevity is a cause for celebration.

Shifting focus to the automotive industry, the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism plans to conduct an on-site inspection at the headquarters of Toyota Motor Corporation in Toyota City, Aichi Prefecture. This inspection is in response to the revelation that five automakers, including Toyota, engaged in misconduct related to obtaining type approvals necessary for mass production of vehicles. The ministry aims to gather detailed information and ensure compliance with regulations.

Lastly, residents of the Kanto and Koshin regions are advised to exercise caution as heavy rain accompanied by thunderstorms is expected. The unstable atmospheric conditions may lead to landslides and flooding in low-lying areas. Stay alert and take necessary precautions to ensure your safety. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be partly cloudy with a maximum temperature of 25°C and a minimum temperature of 17°C. There is a chance of patchy rain nearby throughout the day. The average temperature will be around 20°C.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
