---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-02-25 09:42:49 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-02-25.mp3
summary: "Man Arrested After Wielding Knife in Convenience Store, Symposium Discusses Recovery from Noto Peninsula Earthquake, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for February 25th, 2024."
duration: "178"
length: "02:58"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "-3"
weather_sapporo_description: "Overcast "
weather_sapporo_image: "unknown.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "6"
weather_tokyo_description: "Light rain"
weather_tokyo_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "6"
weather_nagoya_description: "Light drizzle"
weather_nagoya_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "6"
weather_osaka_description: "Light drizzle"
weather_osaka_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "11"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_fukuoka_image: "unknown.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "18"
weather_naha_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_naha_image: "unknown.png"

proverb_id: "125"
proverb_ja: "匙を投げる"
proverb_hiragana: "さじをなげる"
proverb_en: "Give up when success seems unattainable, despite efforts. Throw in the towel."
proverb_lit: "Throwing the spoon."

currency_usd: "150.4"
currency_gbp: "190.8"
currency_eur: "162.9"
currency_cad: "111.7"
currency_aud: "98.9"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240225/k10014369851000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240225/k10014369551000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240225/k10014369651000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240225/k10014369801000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240224/k10014369351000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240224/k10014369501000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240224/k10014369531000.html"

news_story_title1: "コンビニで男が刃物を振り回し3人けが 男はその場で逮捕 札幌"
news_story_title2: "能登半島地震 復興考えるシンポ 専門家“人口減少を見据えて”"
news_story_title3: "免疫不全の感染者支援 新型コロナ診療で指針案を新たに作成へ"
news_story_title4: "能登半島地震 被災した飲食店など 避難者に“温かい料理”提供"
news_story_title5: "滋賀 米原 伊吹山 落石で登山者の55歳男性死亡 別の男性もけが"
news_story_title6: "災害対応の体験を記録「災害エスノグラフィー」を学ぶ 仙台"
news_story_title7: "岸田首相 復旧・復興加速で予備費から約1000億円追加支出へ"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on February 25th, 2024. In our first news story, a man was arrested in Sapporo after wielding a knife in a convenience store, injuring three people. The incident occurred before 7 a.m. in a convenience store in Sapporo's Kita Ward. The man was arrested on the spot, and the police are currently investigating the details of the incident.

Moving on to our next story, a symposium was held in Tokyo to discuss the recovery from the Noto Peninsula earthquake. Experts emphasized the importance of considering the declining population in the region while proceeding with the reconstruction efforts. The symposium aimed to survey the intentions of the affected individuals and formulate a recovery plan that takes into account the future demographic changes.

Next, a research group including the National Institute of Infectious Diseases is working on creating new guidelines to support the treatment of immunocompromised patients infected with the novel coronavirus. It has been observed that individuals with compromised immune systems, such as those undergoing cancer treatment, may experience prolonged symptoms and recurrence of the virus. The guidelines aim to assist in the medical care of these patients.

In a heartwarming gesture, individuals from Ishikawa Prefecture's Suzu City, who themselves were affected by the Noto Peninsula earthquake, provided warm meals, including croquettes, to evacuees in Kanazawa City. This initiative aimed to foster a sense of community and provide comfort to those displaced by the earthquake.

Tragedy struck on Mount Ibuki in Yasu City, Shiga Prefecture, as a 55-year-old male climber lost his life due to falling rocks. Another individual was also injured in the incident. Authorities are currently investigating the circumstances surrounding the accident.

An event was held in Sendai City to deepen the understanding of 'disaster ethnography,' a research method that involves recording the firsthand experiences of individuals involved in disaster response. The event focused on the experiences of those who participated in disaster response during the Great East Japan Earthquake 13 years ago.

Lastly, Prime Minister Kishida announced plans to allocate approximately 100 billion yen from the reserve budget to accelerate recovery and reconstruction efforts in response to the Noto Peninsula earthquake. The additional funds will be used to support not only elderly households affected by the disaster but also working-age individuals facing challenges in rebuilding their homes. The support measures aim to provide financial assistance of up to around 3 million yen.

That concludes today's news from Japan Daily News. Thank you for listening. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be mostly overcast with a chance of light rain. The temperature will range from 5 to 7 degrees Celsius.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
