---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-01-16 09:15:02 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-01-16.mp3
summary: "Increased Probability of Major Earthquake in Miyagi Prefecture | Power Outages in Ishikawa Prefecture, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for January 16th, 2024."
duration: "179"
length: "02:59"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "-6"
weather_sapporo_description: "Moderate or heavy snow showers"
weather_sapporo_image: "snowy.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "7"
weather_tokyo_description: "Partly cloudy"
weather_tokyo_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "7"
weather_nagoya_description: "Partly cloudy"
weather_nagoya_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "7"
weather_osaka_description: "Overcast"
weather_osaka_image: "cloudy3.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "11"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Sunny"
weather_fukuoka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "19"
weather_naha_description: "Partly cloudy"
weather_naha_image: "cloudy1.png"

proverb_id: "26"
proverb_ja: "帯に短したすきに長し"
proverb_hiragana: "おびにみじかしたすきにながし"
proverb_en: "Something that is not useful because it is in between – not enough or too much."
proverb_lit: "Short for a belt, long for a sheath."

currency_usd: "146.0"
currency_gbp: "185.5"
currency_eur: "159.7"
currency_cad: "108.7"
currency_aud: "97.1"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240116/k10014322481000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240116/k10014322411000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240116/k10014322421000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240116/k10014322471000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240116/k10014322201000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240116/k10014322151000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240116/k10014322501000.html"

news_story_title1: "宮城県沖地震の発生確率「70％から90％」に引き上げ 調査委"
news_story_title2: "【被害状況 16日】石川県で約8700戸 停電（6時）"
news_story_title3: "【交通影響 16日】鉄道・航空・道路（6時）"
news_story_title4: "能登半島地震“今後2～3週間ほど震度5強程度に注意を”調査委"
news_story_title5: "能登半島地震 被災地は厳しい冷え込み 雪の交通影響に警戒を"
news_story_title6: "自民 政治刷新本部 きょう開催へ 安倍派 報告書を訂正で調整"
news_story_title7: "能登半島地震 政府 新年度予算案の予備費 1兆円に倍増決定へ"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on January 16th, 2024. In today's news, the Japanese government's earthquake investigation committee has raised the probability of a major earthquake in Miyagi Prefecture. The committee has increased the chances of a magnitude 7-class earthquake occurring within the next 30 years from 70% to 90%. Moving on to another story, approximately 8,700 households in Ishikawa Prefecture are experiencing power outages due to the impact of the recent earthquake. According to Hokuriku Electric Power Company, as of 6 a.m. today, the Noto region in Ishikawa Prefecture has been affected, and efforts are underway to restore the power supply. Please stay tuned for updates on the situation. Now, let's discuss the transportation impact caused by the earthquake. Railways, aviation, and roads have been affected as a result of the seismic activity. The earthquake has disrupted various modes of transportation and road networks. Please check for updates on the status of transportation services. Shifting our focus back to the earthquake, the government's earthquake investigation committee has evaluated the Noto Peninsula earthquake and concluded that it is highly likely to be related to known active faults. The committee advises the public to remain cautious of earthquakes with a maximum intensity of around 5 strong for the next 2 to 3 weeks or potentially stronger. The affected areas of the Noto Peninsula earthquake are currently experiencing severe cold weather and snowfall. The Japan Meteorological Agency has issued a warning regarding the impact on transportation. Since the earthquake on the 1st of this month, there have been over 1,400 noticeable seismic activities, indicating active seismicity. It is important to be aware of earthquakes with an intensity of around 5 strong or higher in the next 2 to 3 weeks. Shifting gears, the Liberal Democratic Party will hold a meeting of the 'Political Reform Headquarters' today, involving all party members to discuss factional reforms and other matters. Meanwhile, the faction led by former Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is working on revising their financial reports. There are calls for senior members to explain the circumstances and future actions. Lastly, in response to the Noto Peninsula earthquake, the government has decided to double the contingency budget for the next fiscal year's budget to 1 trillion yen. The government aims to implement continuous financial measures together with the current fiscal year's contingency budget, focusing on supporting victims and facilitating recovery efforts. Additionally, the government will continue to encourage secondary evacuations to prevent disaster-related deaths. That's all for today's news. Thank you for listening to Japan Daily News. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be mostly clear with a high of 7°C and a low of 3°C.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
