---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-07-14 08:23:33 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-07-14.mp3
summary: "Severe Rainfall in Nagasaki and Kumamoto, Shortage of Care Workers Projected, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for July 14th, 2024."
duration: "218"
length: "03:38"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "25"
weather_sapporo_description: "Sunny"
weather_sapporo_image: "sunny.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "30"
weather_tokyo_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_tokyo_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "30"
weather_nagoya_description: "Light rain shower"
weather_nagoya_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "30"
weather_osaka_description: "Light rain shower"
weather_osaka_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "27"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Light rain shower"
weather_fukuoka_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "31"
weather_naha_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_naha_image: "rainy1.png"

proverb_id: "57"
proverb_ja: "立つ鳥、跡を濁さず"
proverb_hiragana: "たつとり、あとをにごさず"
proverb_en: "One must leave things in order when departing."
proverb_lit: "A bird taking flight doesn’t muddy its path."

currency_usd: "158.7"
currency_gbp: "205.8"
currency_eur: "173.0"
currency_cad: "116.6"
currency_aud: "107.5"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240714/k10014511221000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240714/k10014511211000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240714/k10014510871000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240714/k10014511161000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240714/k10014511061000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240714/k10014510991000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240714/k10014510861000.html"

news_story_title1: "長崎県五島で線状降水帯が発生 災害危険度高まる"
news_story_title2: "熊本 天草市全域に高齢者等避難の情報"
news_story_title3: "介護職員 2040年度に272万人必要 57万人不足に 厚労省が推計"
news_story_title4: "九州北部 山口 線状降水帯発生のおそれ 14日午後にかけて"
news_story_title5: "脳死“診断” 可能性ある患者の約3割にとどまる 厚労省調査"
news_story_title6: "北海道 小樽 飲酒運転ひき逃げ死傷事件から10年 警察が献花式"
news_story_title7: "秋田 記録的大雨から1年 今なお修復工事が進まない住宅も"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on July 14th, 2024. In today's news, severe rainfall has been reported in Nagasaki and Kumamoto, increasing the risk of disasters. The Nagasaki Meteorological Observatory has issued a warning for a linear rain band that has formed in Goto, Nagasaki. This phenomenon, known as a 'linear rain band,' is caused by developed cumulonimbus clouds bringing heavy rain in succession. The observatory has urged people to be vigilant as there is a rapidly increasing danger of landslides and floods that could pose a threat to lives. Meanwhile, in Kumamoto, the entire city of Amakusa has been advised to evacuate due to the risk of landslides caused by heavy rain. The evacuation order, applicable to 35,678 households and 72,955 people, specifically targets the elderly and those with physical disabilities. Moving on to a different topic, the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare has projected a shortage of 570,000 care workers by fiscal year 2040, when the baby boomer generation will have reached old age. The estimated number of care workers needed to support elderly individuals requiring care is 2.72 million, highlighting the significant gap in supply. The government has been working on improving the treatment of care workers, but the shortage still persists, necessitating further measures to maintain the services provided by the long-term care insurance system. Additionally, the Kyushu region, particularly northern Kyushu and Yamaguchi Prefecture, is facing the possibility of a linear rain band and heavy rain in the afternoon due to the influence of the seasonal rain front. People are urged to exercise caution and be prepared for potential landslides and river flooding. Shifting gears, a survey conducted by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare revealed that only approximately 30% of patients who potentially meet the criteria for brain death receive an actual diagnosis of brain death. In order to proceed with organ donation from individuals in a state of brain death, it is necessary for a physician to diagnose 'brain death' and obtain the consent of the family, leading to a legal 'brain death determination.' The research team emphasized the importance of accurate diagnosis, as it affects the decision to continue treatment and ultimately respects the intention of organ donation. They also highlighted the need to reduce the burden on physicians and ensure appropriate diagnoses. In other news, the police held a flower-laying ceremony to commemorate the 10th anniversary of the hit-and-run incident in Otaru, Hokkaido, where four women returning from a beach outing were struck by a drunk driver. Lastly, it has been one year since the record-breaking heavy rain in Akita, which caused damage to over 7,300 houses. However, some homes in the prefecture still await repair work, and the local social welfare council continues to receive inquiries from residents who are unable to live in their homes or face financial concerns hindering their recovery process. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be partly cloudy with a maximum temperature of 30°C and a minimum temperature of 25°C. There is a chance of patchy rain nearby throughout the day. The UV index is 6, indicating moderate sun exposure. Overall, it will be a warm and slightly rainy day.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
