---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-01-08 08:09:15 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-01-08.mp3
summary: "Transportation Disruptions and Snowfall in Noto Peninsula, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for January 8th, 2024."
duration: "177"
length: "02:57"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "-2"
weather_sapporo_description: "Moderate or heavy snow showers"
weather_sapporo_image: "snowy.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "8"
weather_tokyo_description: "Sunny"
weather_tokyo_image: "sunny.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "7"
weather_nagoya_description: "Sunny"
weather_nagoya_image: "sunny.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "6"
weather_osaka_description: "Patchy rain possible"
weather_osaka_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "7"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Sunny"
weather_fukuoka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "18"
weather_naha_description: "Partly cloudy"
weather_naha_image: "cloudy1.png"

proverb_id: "106"
proverb_ja: "ミイラ取りがミイラになる"
proverb_hiragana: "みいらとりがみいらになる"
proverb_en: "The one who goes to retrieve the mummy becomes a mummy"
proverb_lit: "The mummy retriever becomes a mummy."

currency_usd: "145.1"
currency_gbp: "183.8"
currency_eur: "158.5"
currency_cad: "108.6"
currency_aud: "97.1"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240108/k10014313241000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240108/k10014313461000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240108/k10014313421000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240108/k10014313171000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240108/k10014313451000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240108/k10014313111000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240108/k10014313141000.html"

news_story_title1: "【交通影響 8日】鉄道運行状況は 一般車両 通行できない道路も"
news_story_title2: "石川県内7区間の通行止め 午前7時に全面解除 除雪作業を実施"
news_story_title3: "能登半島地震の被災地 平地でも大雪見込み 建物倒壊に十分注意"
news_story_title4: "能登半島地震1週間 地震活動の活発な状態続く"
news_story_title5: "幼児2人死亡 母親は重体 近くに遺書のようなもの 宇都宮"
news_story_title6: "能登半島地震1週間 政府 避難長期化も見据え 寒さ対応など注力"
news_story_title7: "自民 池田佳隆議員逮捕で除名処分に 党内では動揺広がる"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on January 8th, 2024. In today's news, we have several stories from Japan. The first story is about transportation disruptions caused by an earthquake. As of 6:00 am today, some roads are impassable for regular vehicles due to the impact of the earthquake on transportation systems.

Moving on to our next story, the snowfall in Ishikawa Prefecture's Noto region has led to road closures. The prefecture conducted intensive snow removal operations and closed seven road sections leading to the Noto area. However, the roads were reopened at 7:00 am after the completion of the snow removal work.

Now, let's talk about the aftermath of the Noto Peninsula earthquake. The affected areas are experiencing heavy snowfall due to the influence of cold air in the upper atmosphere. It is expected that even the plains will experience heavy snowfall until early afternoon today. Buildings that have been damaged by the consecutive earthquakes need to be particularly cautious about the risk of collapse due to the weight of the snow. Additionally, with the severe cold, it is important to take measures to prevent hypothermia.

Continuing with the earthquake-related news, it has been one week since the Noto Peninsula earthquake struck. The seismic activity remains active in the Noto region, with over 1,000 tremors recorded at a magnitude of 1 or higher. Experts familiar with active faults are urging the surrounding areas of the epicenter to remain prepared for tremors and tsunamis.

In other news, a tragic incident occurred in Utsunomiya, where two children died and their mother is in critical condition. The bodies of the two boys, aged 2 and 4, were found collapsed in the living room of their home on the evening of the 7th. The mother, who is in an unconscious state, left behind something resembling a farewell letter, prompting the police to investigate the circumstances.

Moving on to the government's response to the Noto Peninsula earthquake, which has been ongoing for one week. The government continues to prioritize saving lives and is making every effort to restore lifelines, resolve isolated areas, and prepare for the possibility of prolonged evacuations. They are also focusing on addressing the challenges posed by the cold weather and snow.

Lastly, in political news, the arrest of Liberal Democratic Party member Yoshitaka Ikeda has led to his expulsion from the party. Ikeda, who belongs to the faction led by Shinzo Abe, was arrested in relation to a political funds party scandal. The arrest has caused turmoil within the party, while the opposition parties are intensifying their pressure for accountability and seeking explanations.

That's all for today's news. Thank you for listening to Japan Daily News. Stay tuned for more updates. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be mostly sunny with a high of 8°C and a low of 5°C.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
