---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-06-08 07:56:03 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-06-08.mp3
summary: "National Universities Association Issues Urgent Statement on Financial Crisis, Traffic Safety White Paper Focuses on Preventing Accidents Among Elderly, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for June 8th, 2024."
duration: "176"
length: "02:56"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "23"
weather_sapporo_description: "Sunny"
weather_sapporo_image: "sunny.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "27"
weather_tokyo_description: "Sunny"
weather_tokyo_image: "sunny.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "26"
weather_nagoya_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_nagoya_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "27"
weather_osaka_description: "Sunny"
weather_osaka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "27"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Sunny"
weather_fukuoka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "27"
weather_naha_description: "Cloudy"
weather_naha_image: "cloudy2.png"

proverb_id: "73"
proverb_ja: "団栗の背比べ"
proverb_hiragana: "どんぐりのせいくらべ"
proverb_en: "Everyone or everything is on the same mediocre level."
proverb_lit: "Comparing the heights of acorns."

currency_usd: "155.5"
currency_gbp: "199.2"
currency_eur: "169.5"
currency_cad: "113.8"
currency_aud: "103.7"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240608/k10014474431000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240608/k10014474421000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240608/k10014474551000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240608/k10014474441000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240607/k10014474581000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240607/k10014474561000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240607/k10014473901000.html"

news_story_title1: "国立大協会 緊急の声明を公表 財務状況の悪化で「もう限界」"
news_story_title2: "ことしの「交通安全白書」案まとまる 高齢者の事故防止策強化"
news_story_title3: "鹿児島県警元部長 流出文書に“本部長が隠蔽指示”記載なし"
news_story_title4: "再逮捕の「つばさの党」代表ら 3キロにわたり他陣営を追尾か"
news_story_title5: "プルデンシャル生命保険元社員を逮捕 うその投資話で詐取か"
news_story_title6: "大津 保護司の男性殺害事件 保護観察中の35歳の容疑者に逮捕状"
news_story_title7: "神戸 ラーメン店主の組長を殺害の疑い 暴力団幹部ら5人を逮捕"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on June 8th, 2024. In today's news, the National Universities Association has issued an urgent statement regarding the worsening financial situation due to inflation and the weakening yen. They have expressed their limit and called for understanding of the current situation and an increase in government subsidies.

Moving on, the Traffic Safety White Paper for this year has been finalized. In light of the increasing number of fatal accidents caused by elderly drivers, the paper emphasizes the need to strengthen accident prevention measures. This includes encouraging voluntary return of driver's licenses when necessary.

Shifting gears, in the case of the leak of internal documents containing personal information by the former head of the Kagoshima Prefectural Police's Public Safety Division, it has been revealed that there is no mention of the head of the department instructing a cover-up. The former head claims that he could not tolerate the police headquarters' attempt to conceal the criminal acts of its staff. The police are conducting a detailed investigation into the motive behind the leak.

Next, three representatives of the political group 'Tsubasa no To' have been rearrested for obstructing election campaigns in the by-election for the 15th district of the House of Representatives in Tokyo. They were accused of chasing and interfering with the campaign cars of other parties. The Tokyo Metropolitan Police are investigating the details of these obstruction activities.

Moving on to financial news, a former employee of Prudential Life Insurance has been arrested for allegedly swindling 5 million yen from a woman in her 60s in Kanazawa City by telling her false investment stories. The company has announced that the former employee had fraudulently held over 700 million yen from 34 individuals. The police suspect that there may be other similar victims and are continuing their investigation. The former employee claims that he did not intend to deceive anyone.

In other news, an arrest warrant has been issued for a 35-year-old suspect who was under probation for the murder of a 60-year-old male probation officer in his home in Otsu City last month. The police plan to arrest the suspect on June 8th and investigate the details of the incident.

Lastly, in connection with the murder of a gang leader who was shot and killed at a ramen shop in Kobe last year, five individuals, including a senior member of an organized crime group who has already been indicted for another gun-related incident, have been arrested on suspicion of murder under the Organized Crime Punishment Act. The police are investigating the possibility of a conflict related to the division of the Yamaguchi-gumi syndicate. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be mostly sunny with a high of 27°C and a low of 20°C.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
