---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-01-19 09:01:53 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-01-19.mp3
summary: "Tragic Fire Claims Lives in Kunitachi and Noto Peninsula Earthquake Causes Transportation Disruptions, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for January 19th, 2024."
duration: "189"
length: "03:09"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "-5"
weather_sapporo_description: "Light snow"
weather_sapporo_image: "snowy.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "12"
weather_tokyo_description: "Cloudy"
weather_tokyo_image: "cloudy2.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "13"
weather_nagoya_description: "Partly cloudy"
weather_nagoya_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "12"
weather_osaka_description: "Partly cloudy"
weather_osaka_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "11"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Overcast"
weather_fukuoka_image: "cloudy3.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "23"
weather_naha_description: "Partly cloudy"
weather_naha_image: "cloudy1.png"

proverb_id: "31"
proverb_ja: "金さえあれば飛ぶ鳥も落ちる"
proverb_hiragana: "かねさえあればとぶとりもおちる"
proverb_en: "Most things in the world can be resolved with money."
proverb_lit: "If there is money, even flying birds will fall."

currency_usd: "147.9"
currency_gbp: "187.6"
currency_eur: "160.8"
currency_cad: "109.6"
currency_aud: "97.1"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240119/k10014326651000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240119/k10014326551000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240119/k10014326641000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240119/k10014326631000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240119/k10014326351000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240119/k10014326611000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240119/k10014326451000.html"

news_story_title1: "国分寺の住宅で火事 高齢男女2人が死亡"
news_story_title2: "【能登半島地震 交通影響】鉄道・航空・道路（19日5時）"
news_story_title3: "関東甲信であすから降雪 関東南部の平地でも積雪の見込み"
news_story_title4: "石川県志賀町で震度4 津波心配なし（7:06）"
news_story_title5: "「熱中症特別警戒アラート」4月24日から運用開始へ"
news_story_title6: "アメリカ 厳しい寒波で40人が死亡 電線の落下による感電など"
news_story_title7: "輪島 約72時間後救助も亡くなる 女性の長男「よくがんばった」"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on January 19th, 2024. In tragic news, a fire broke out in a residence in Kunitachi, Tokyo, claiming the lives of two elderly individuals. The fire was reported in the morning of the 19th, and although the 80-year-old man and 90-year-old woman were rescued and taken to the hospital, they unfortunately succumbed to their injuries. The police are currently investigating the cause of the fire and trying to establish contact with the couple who resided in the house.

Moving on to natural disasters, the Noto Peninsula experienced an earthquake that caused disruptions to various modes of transportation. As of 5 a.m. on the 19th, the impact on railways, aviation, and roads was being assessed. Fortunately, there were no reports of tsunamis resulting from the earthquake. We urge everyone to stay updated with the latest information.

In other weather-related news, the Kanto-Koshin region is expected to receive snowfall starting from tomorrow. Due to a low-pressure system moving along the southern coast of Honshu, heavy snowfall is anticipated in mountainous areas from the afternoon of the 20th until the 21st. Some areas in southern Kanto may also experience snow accumulation. Please exercise caution and stay informed about the latest weather updates.

Shifting our focus back to earthquakes, a magnitude 4 earthquake was recorded in Shiga Town, Ishikawa Prefecture at 7:06 a.m. There is no concern for tsunamis resulting from this earthquake. Additional tremors with intensities of 2 and 1 were observed in other areas of Ishikawa, Toyama, and Gifu Prefectures. The epicenter of the earthquake was off the coast of the Noto Peninsula, with a depth of 10 kilometers. The estimated magnitude of the earthquake is 4.3.

In health news, starting from April 24th, the government will implement the 'Heatstroke Special Alert' to address the increasing number of heatstroke cases and fatalities. This alert will be issued when there is a risk of significant health damage due to unprecedented heatwaves affecting wide areas. The announcement was made and approved during a meeting of national experts.

Shifting our attention overseas, the United States is currently facing a severe cold wave that has resulted in the deaths of 40 individuals. The extreme cold and snow have caused various impacts, including electrocution from fallen power lines. Our thoughts are with those affected by this harsh weather.

Lastly, in relation to the recent Noto Peninsula earthquake, an 89-year-old woman who was rescued from a collapsed house in Wajima City, Ishikawa Prefecture, has unfortunately passed away after approximately 72 hours. The woman's eldest son expressed his sadness during an interview with NHK, stating, 'She seemed to be recovering, so it's disappointing. She did her best. I hope she can rest peacefully now and no longer suffer.' And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be overcast with a high of 12°C and a low of 9°C.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
