---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-01-15 09:10:07 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-01-15.mp3
summary: "Earthquake Activity Continues in Noto Peninsula, Development of Autonomous Snowplows, and Landmark Ruling in Sagawa Incident Lawsuit, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for January 15th, 2024."
duration: "188"
length: "03:08"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "-6"
weather_sapporo_description: "Patchy heavy snow"
weather_sapporo_image: "snowy.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "9"
weather_tokyo_description: "Partly cloudy"
weather_tokyo_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "8"
weather_nagoya_description: "Sunny"
weather_nagoya_image: "sunny.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "8"
weather_osaka_description: "Patchy rain possible"
weather_osaka_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "11"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Sunny"
weather_fukuoka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "20"
weather_naha_description: "Partly cloudy"
weather_naha_image: "cloudy1.png"

proverb_id: "24"
proverb_ja: "負うた子に教えられる"
proverb_hiragana: "おうたこにおしえられる"
proverb_en: "Learning from those less experienced or younger."
proverb_lit: "Being taught by the child you're carrying on your back."

currency_usd: "145.6"
currency_gbp: "185.2"
currency_eur: "159.2"
currency_cad: "108.8"
currency_aud: "97.2"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240115/k10014320681000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240115/k10014320571000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240115/k10014320671000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240115/k10014320691000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240115/k10014320581000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240115/k10014320661000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240115/k10014320771000.html"

news_story_title1: "能登半島地震から2週間 地震活動なお活発 低体温症にも注意を"
news_story_title2: "除雪車 自動運転化や遠隔操作に向けた開発が活発に"
news_story_title3: "砂川事件めぐる賠償訴訟きょう判決 “日米密談”の評価も注目"
news_story_title4: "災害に便乗の詐欺や悪質商法に注意 相談ホットライン設置"
news_story_title5: "ことしの税制改正 住宅ローン減税の見直しや資産移転促す改正"
news_story_title6: "新型コロナ 国内で初確認から4年 感染と後遺症への対策が課題"
news_story_title7: "能登 介護担う職員の人手不足が依然深刻 いかに支えていくか"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on January 15th, 2024. In our top news stories today:

First, it has been two weeks since the Noto Peninsula earthquake, which recorded a maximum intensity of 7. The earthquake activity has remained active, with nearly 1,400 tremors felt since January 1st. Residents are advised to remain cautious of strong tremors of at least intensity 5 or higher. The affected areas are also experiencing severe cold temperatures, and snow is expected in the coming days. Residents in areas with loose ground due to the tremors should be vigilant against landslides and take precautions against hypothermia.

Moving on to our next story, as the shortage of manpower for snow removal becomes a challenge during the winter season, there has been a surge in the development of autonomous snowplows and remote-controlled operations.

In other news, the verdict for the Sagawa incident lawsuit, in which students entered a U.S. military base in Tokyo in 1957 and were subsequently convicted, will be announced today at the Tokyo District Court. The plaintiffs argue that the trial was unfair, as it was later discovered that the former Chief Justice of the Supreme Court had an unofficial meeting with the U.S. side and shared information about the verdict in advance. The evaluation of these circumstances is of great interest.

Moving on, authorities are concerned about the spread of fraud and malicious business practices taking advantage of the disaster in the Noto Peninsula. To address this, the Consumer Affairs Agency and the National Consumer Affairs Center have set up a hotline to receive phone consultations from affected residents.

Next, this year will see revisions to tax regulations related to housing, including a review of the housing loan tax reduction and tax measures for tower apartments, as well as tax reforms to promote asset transfer.

In other news, it has been four years since the first confirmed case of COVID-19 in Japan. With the increasing global prevalence of new variant viruses and a rise in consultations regarding post-infection symptoms, tackling both the prevention of infection and the management of post-infection symptoms remains a challenge.

Lastly, the shortage of staff responsible for caregiving in Noto Peninsula continues to be a serious issue. Two weeks after the earthquake, elderly care facilities in the affected areas are still facing water shortages and deteriorating hygiene conditions. Efforts to relocate elderly residents to other facilities to ensure their safety and health are intensifying. However, the shortage of caregiving staff remains a significant challenge in supporting these facilities and staff members.

That's it for today's news from Japan Daily News. Stay tuned for more updates tomorrow. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be partly cloudy with a high of 9°C and a low of 4°C. There is a 91% chance of sunshine and a 0% chance of rain or snow. The wind will be blowing at a speed of 19 km/h.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
