---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-01-24 09:12:48 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-01-24.mp3
summary: "Snowfall Disrupts Train Services, Fatal Accident on Icy Road, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for January 24th, 2024."
duration: "180"
length: "03:00"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "-3"
weather_sapporo_description: "Moderate or heavy snow showers"
weather_sapporo_image: "snowy.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "7"
weather_tokyo_description: "Partly cloudy"
weather_tokyo_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "3"
weather_nagoya_description: "Moderate or heavy snow showers"
weather_nagoya_image: "snowy.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "4"
weather_osaka_description: "Patchy sleet possible"
weather_osaka_image: "sleet.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "4"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Light snow showers"
weather_fukuoka_image: "snowy.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "13"
weather_naha_description: "Patchy rain possible"
weather_naha_image: "rainy1.png"

proverb_id: "103"
proverb_ja: "仏の顔も三度"
proverb_hiragana: "ほとけのかおもさんど"
proverb_en: "Even a patient person will lose their temper eventually."
proverb_lit: "Even Buddha loses patience after three times."

currency_usd: "147.9"
currency_gbp: "188.3"
currency_eur: "160.8"
currency_cad: "109.9"
currency_aud: "97.6"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240124/k10014332261000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240124/k10014332311000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240124/k10014332221000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240124/k10014331921000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240124/k10014331901000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240124/k10014332321000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240124/k10014331981000.html"

news_story_title1: "東海道新幹線 積雪のため 名古屋～京都間で速度落とし運転"
news_story_title2: "路面凍結でスリップか トレーラーにはねられ男性死亡 北九州"
news_story_title3: "雪による空の便 鉄道 道路の影響は（24日8:00）"
news_story_title4: "この冬1番の寒気 福井 滋賀に顕著な大雪に関する情報 警戒を"
news_story_title5: "“人種や国籍を理由に職務質問” 国などに賠償求め提訴へ"
news_story_title6: "山陽新幹線 運転再開"
news_story_title7: "東北・北陸・上越新幹線 きょう始発からほぼ通常どおり運転"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on January 24th, 2024. In today's news, heavy snowfall in parts of Japan has caused disruptions to train services and led to a fatal accident on an icy road.

First, on the East Japan Railway Company's Tokaido Shinkansen line, trains between Nagoya and Kyoto have been running at reduced speeds due to snow accumulation near Maibara City in Shiga Prefecture. To ensure safety, trains are being inspected for snow accumulation at Shin-Osaka Station for southbound trains and at Nagoya Station for northbound trains. As a result, delays of up to 10 minutes are expected on this section of the line. Passengers are advised to check the latest updates on the JR East website.

Moving on to Kyushu, a tragic accident occurred in Kitakyushu City early in the morning. A large trailer slipped on a frozen road surface and collided with a man who was on the opposite lane, resulting in his death. The police are investigating the details of the incident.

The heavy snowfall across Japan has also affected transportation systems. Trains and roads in various regions have been impacted, causing delays and disruptions.

Winter weather conditions have intensified in Fukui and Shiga Prefectures, with significant snowfall. The Japan Meteorological Agency has issued a weather advisory for 'significant snowfall' and urges caution due to the potential for major transportation disruptions. Snowfall is expected to continue in the Japan Sea region, including the Noto Peninsula, throughout the 25th. Please take necessary precautions and stay in safe locations.

In other news, three foreign nationals are planning to file a lawsuit against the Japanese government, claiming that they have been repeatedly subjected to racial profiling during police questioning. They argue that such actions constitute discrimination and violate the constitution. This case highlights the ongoing debate surrounding the legality of racial profiling based on race, nationality, and other factors.

On the transportation front, the Sanyo Shinkansen line, which had temporarily suspended operations between Hiroshima Station and Kokura Station in Fukuoka Prefecture due to equipment trouble at Atsusa Station in Yamaguchi Prefecture, has resumed normal service as of 7:11 a.m.

Lastly, after a day of service cancellations on the Tohoku, Hokuriku, and Joetsu Shinkansen lines due to overhead wire trouble, operations have returned to normal today. JR East has completed the necessary repairs, and trains are running as scheduled, with only minor exceptions. That's all for today's news. Thank you for listening to Japan Daily News. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be partly cloudy with a maximum temperature of 7°C and a minimum temperature of 3°C. There is a 100% chance of rain and a UV index of 2.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
