---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-06-17 08:30:27 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-06-17.mp3
summary: "Heavy Rain Expected in Southern and Western Japan, Noto Peninsula Earthquake Recovery Workshop, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for June 17th, 2024."
duration: "191"
length: "03:11"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "24"
weather_sapporo_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_sapporo_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "28"
weather_tokyo_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_tokyo_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "30"
weather_nagoya_description: "Cloudy"
weather_nagoya_image: "cloudy2.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "29"
weather_osaka_description: "Sunny"
weather_osaka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "25"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Cloudy"
weather_fukuoka_image: "cloudy2.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "28"
weather_naha_description: "Light rain shower"
weather_naha_image: "rainy1.png"

proverb_id: "59"
proverb_ja: "棚から牡丹餅"
proverb_hiragana: "たなからぼたもち"
proverb_en: "An unexpected and often effortless fortune."
proverb_lit: "Botamochi (sweet rice cake) falls from the shelf."

currency_usd: "157.0"
currency_gbp: "199.2"
currency_eur: "167.8"
currency_cad: "114.2"
currency_aud: "103.8"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240617/k10014483021000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240617/k10014482921000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240616/k10014482721000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240616/k10014482851000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240616/k10014482771000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240616/k10014482431000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240616/k10014482161000.html"

news_story_title1: "奄美地方と西日本 東日本の太平洋側中心に大雨のおそれ"
news_story_title2: "能登半島地震 復興の課題など地元住民が意見交わす 石川 輪島"
news_story_title3: "村の名物イベント「丸太切り大会」19年ぶり復活 福島 葛尾村"
news_story_title4: "鹿児島県警 書類廃棄促すかのような文書 大崎事件弁護団が抗議"
news_story_title5: "佳子さま 障害者ダンス大会に出席 東京 渋谷区"
news_story_title6: "きょうも各地で真夏日 あすも気温高い状態が続く見込み"
news_story_title7: "西～北日本 大気不安定 近畿東海で雨雲発達 落雷や突風に注意"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on June 17th, 2024. In today's news, the Japan Meteorological Agency has issued a warning of heavy rain in the Amami region of Kagoshima Prefecture, as well as southern and western Japan and the Pacific side of eastern Japan. The rain is expected to be accompanied by thunderstorms and could become very intense, leading to the possibility of heavy rainfall, landslides, and flooding in low-lying areas. The agency is urging residents to exercise caution and be prepared for potential disasters.

Moving on to our next story, a workshop was held in Wajima City, Ishikawa Prefecture, where local residents discussed the challenges of recovery and future urban development following the Noto Peninsula earthquake. The workshop provided a platform for residents to exchange ideas and opinions on topics such as rebuilding efforts and long-term community development.

In Fukushima Prefecture's Katsurao Village, a long-awaited event, the 'Log Cutting Competition,' was revived after a hiatus of 19 years. The event, which used to be a popular tradition in the village, involves participants competing to see who can cut a log the fastest. This event not only brings back a sense of normalcy but also contributes to the revitalization of the community in the aftermath of the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster.

In other news, the defense team of a 97-year-old woman who was convicted of killing her brother-in-law in Osaki Town, Kagoshima Prefecture, in 1979, known as the 'Osaki Incident,' has expressed their protest against the Kagoshima Prefectural Police Headquarters. The defense team claims that the police issued internal documents that seemed to encourage the disposal of investigative documents. They argue that this is a very serious issue and are demanding a retrial to prove the woman's innocence.

Princess Kako, the second daughter of Prince and Princess Akishino, attended a dance competition for people with disabilities in Shibuya Ward, Tokyo. The event aimed to provide an opportunity for people with disabilities to enjoy dance and music. Princess Kako's presence at the event highlighted the importance of inclusivity and support for individuals with special needs.

Moving on to the weather, many regions experienced scorching temperatures again today, with some areas reaching the criteria for a 'midsummer day.' The hot weather is expected to continue tomorrow as well, so please take precautions to stay cool and hydrated.

Lastly, due to the influence of low-pressure systems and cold air in the upper atmosphere, the atmospheric conditions in western and northern Japan have become highly unstable. This has led to the development of rain clouds in the Kinki and Tokai regions. Residents are advised to be cautious of lightning, gusty winds, and sudden heavy rainfall.

That's all for today's news. Thank you for listening to Japan Daily News. Stay informed and have a great day! And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be partly cloudy with a maximum temperature of 28°C and a minimum temperature of 24°C. There is a 100% chance of rain and a UV index of 6.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
