---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-07-06 09:48:20 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-07-06.mp3
summary: "Improper Handling of Classified Information by JMSDF Chief and Mistake in Judgment on Steam Eruption Issue in Rankoshi Town, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for July 6th, 2024."
duration: "203"
length: "03:23"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "20"
weather_sapporo_description: "Light drizzle"
weather_sapporo_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "33"
weather_tokyo_description: "Sunny"
weather_tokyo_image: "sunny.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "35"
weather_nagoya_description: "Cloudy"
weather_nagoya_image: "cloudy2.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "33"
weather_osaka_description: "Partly Cloudy"
weather_osaka_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "32"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Sunny"
weather_fukuoka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "31"
weather_naha_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_naha_image: "rainy1.png"

proverb_id: "59"
proverb_ja: "棚から牡丹餅"
proverb_hiragana: "たなからぼたもち"
proverb_en: "An unexpected and often effortless fortune."
proverb_lit: "Botamochi (sweet rice cake) falls from the shelf."

currency_usd: "160.8"
currency_gbp: "205.8"
currency_eur: "173.9"
currency_cad: "118.1"
currency_aud: "108.3"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240706/k10014503301000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240706/k10014503271000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240706/k10014503311000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240706/k10014503081000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240706/k10014503091000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240705/k10014503221000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240705/k10014502661000.html"

news_story_title1: "海自「特定秘密」不適切な取り扱い 海上幕僚長が辞任の意向"
news_story_title2: "北海道 蘭越町 蒸気噴出問題 掘削会社 “注水停止の判断ミス”"
news_story_title3: "【気温 随時更新】猛烈な暑さ続く 22都県に熱中症警戒アラート"
news_story_title4: "西日本豪雨から6年 “避難指示で避難する” 割合が減少 課題に"
news_story_title5: "北～西日本で大気不安定 激しい突風や雨 ひょうなどに注意を"
news_story_title6: "高知 小学生が水泳の授業中に溺れ死亡 中学校のプールで授業"
news_story_title7: "各地で熱中症疑いの搬送相次ぐ 都内ではことし初めて100人超に"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on July 6th, 2024. In today's news, it has been revealed that multiple vessels of the Japan Maritime Self-Defense Force (JMSDF) have mishandled classified information related to national security. The information, known as 'specific secrets,' was handled by unqualified personnel, according to sources from the Ministry of Defense. As a result, the Ministry is considering disciplinary actions against several senior officials, and the Chief of Staff of the JMSDF has expressed his intention to resign.

Moving on to another news story, last year in Rankoshi Town, Hokkaido, a steam eruption occurred at a drilling site, releasing steam containing arsenic. The company responsible for the drilling has stated that there was a mistake in judgment when they encountered underground cracks. Instead of injecting water to seal the cracks, they mistakenly stopped the water injection. This incident highlights the importance of proper judgment and decision-making in such situations.

In weather news, the intense heat continues to persist in 22 prefectures across western and eastern Japan. Temperatures are expected to reach dangerous levels, with Shizuoka City forecasted to experience a scorching 38 degrees Celsius. As a result, 'heatstroke alert' advisories have been issued in these 22 prefectures, urging people to take precautions such as using air conditioning appropriately.

Turning to a different topic, it has been six years since the devastating heavy rainfall in western Japan. While the restoration of damaged infrastructure and emergency flood control measures have been nearly completed, a survey conducted among residents reveals a concerning trend. The percentage of people who responded that they would evacuate when evacuation orders are issued has significantly decreased compared to immediately after the disaster. Ensuring that residents can evacuate properly before a disaster strikes remains a challenge.

In terms of weather, unstable atmospheric conditions are expected in northern and western Japan today due to warm and humid air. The Japan Meteorological Agency is cautioning against severe gusts of wind, thunderstorms, and localized heavy rainfall, including the possibility of hail. Please stay alert and take necessary precautions.

Tragically, a student in Kochi City lost their life during a swimming lesson. The elementary school student drowned in a pool at a nearby junior high school while their school's filtration pump was out of order. As a result, the water depth in the pool was approximately 10 centimeters deeper than usual. This incident raises concerns about the safety measures and maintenance of school facilities.

Lastly, there has been a surge in the number of people being transported to hospitals with suspected heatstroke. According to the Tokyo Fire Department, on the 5th of July, a total of 134 individuals ranging from 6 to 90 years old were rushed to the hospital due to heatstroke. This marks the first time this year that the number of daily transports has exceeded 100 in Tokyo alone. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be sunny with a maximum temperature of 33°C and a minimum temperature of 27°C.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
