---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-04-18 10:01:58 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-04-18.mp3
summary: "Earthquake in Ehime and Kochi prefectures injures 7 | Niigata Minamata Disease Lawsuit Verdict today, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for April 18th, 2024."
duration: "220"
length: "03:40"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "N/A"
weather_sapporo_description: "Error fetching weather for Sapporo"
weather_sapporo_image: "error.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "N/A"
weather_tokyo_description: "Error fetching weather for Tokyo+Tower"
weather_tokyo_image: "error.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "N/A"
weather_nagoya_description: "Error fetching weather for Nagoya"
weather_nagoya_image: "error.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "N/A"
weather_osaka_description: "Error fetching weather for Osaka"
weather_osaka_image: "error.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "N/A"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Error fetching weather for Hakata"
weather_fukuoka_image: "error.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "N/A"
weather_naha_description: "Error fetching weather for Naha+Airport"
weather_naha_image: "error.png"

proverb_id: "41"
proverb_ja: "この親にしてこの子あり"
proverb_hiragana: "このおやにしてこのこあり"
proverb_en: "A child's behaviour reflects its parents."
proverb_lit: "Like parent, like child."

currency_usd: "154.6"
currency_gbp: "192.7"
currency_eur: "164.5"
currency_cad: "112.0"
currency_aud: "99.4"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240417/k10014425241000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240417/k10014425191000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240418/k10014425531000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240418/k10014425541000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240418/k10014425131000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240418/k10014425341000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240418/k10014424941000.html"

news_story_title1: "【随時更新 被害】愛媛・大分で7人けが 愛媛と高知で震度6弱"
news_story_title2: "【地震情報】愛媛県と高知県で震度6弱 津波なし"
news_story_title3: "【動画】震度5弱の愛媛 大洲 国道に大きな石など散乱 落石か"
news_story_title4: "南海トラフの想定震源域と関連は? 震度6弱の地震 【解説動画】"
news_story_title5: "新潟水俣病集団訴訟 きょう判決 新潟地裁"
news_story_title6: "【地震 交通影響】JR四国 一部区間 始発から終日運転見合わせ"
news_story_title7: "人口減少進む奄美群島 観光振興や住宅整備など支援検討 財務省"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on April 18th, 2024. In today's news, a strong earthquake with a seismic intensity of around 6 was observed in Ehime and Kochi prefectures. The earthquake occurred around 11:14 PM on the 17th and resulted in injuries to a total of 7 people, with 5 in Ehime prefecture and 2 in Oita prefecture. The damage caused by the earthquake is being updated continuously.

Another earthquake with a seismic intensity of around 6 was also reported in Ehime and Kochi prefectures. This earthquake originated in the Bungo Strait late at night on the 17th. Fortunately, no tsunami was generated. The Japan Meteorological Agency has issued a warning to be cautious of earthquakes with a maximum seismic intensity of around 6 for the next week in the areas where strong shaking was observed. It is the first time since the introduction of the current seismic intensity classification in 1996 that a seismic intensity of 6 or higher has been observed in Ehime and Kochi prefectures.

Moving on to other news, a video footage taken from a helicopter shows the aftermath of the earthquake in the Higawa area of Ozu City, Ehime prefecture, where there were scattered large rocks and debris on the national highway.

In related news, an expert explains the connection between the earthquake and the assumed seismic source area of the Nankai Trough. The earthquake in Ehime and Kochi prefectures, with a seismic intensity of around 6, has raised concerns about the potential impact on the Nankai Trough, although no tsunami occurred. The Japan Meteorological Agency has called for caution against earthquakes with a maximum seismic intensity of around 6 for the next week in the areas where strong shaking was observed. This is the first time since 1996, when the current seismic intensity classification was introduced, that a seismic intensity of 6 or higher has been observed in Ehime and Kochi prefectures. The social affairs department's disaster specialist, reporter Yuki Wakabayashi, provides further explanation on the assumed seismic source area of the Nankai Trough in a video commentary.

In other news, the verdict for the Niigata Minamata Disease collective lawsuit will be delivered today at the Niigata District Court. The lawsuit involves 47 people from Niigata prefecture who are seeking compensation from the government and the responsible company for not being recognized as victims of Minamata Disease and being excluded from the relief measures under the Special Measures Act. In a similar collective lawsuit last year, the Osaka District Court recognized all plaintiffs as victims of Minamata Disease and ordered compensation from the government and others. However, the Kumamoto District Court dismissed the plaintiffs' claims last month, making the judgment of the Niigata District Court highly anticipated.

In transportation news, due to the earthquake, JR Shikoku has suspended train services on certain sections for the entire day starting from the first train.

Lastly, the Ministry of Finance has announced a new initiative to support the revitalization of regions in collaboration with other ministries. The initiative will focus on supporting tourism promotion and housing development in the Amami Islands of Kagoshima prefecture, where population decline is a growing concern. And now for the weather. The weather in Tokyo today is expected to be cloudy with a high temperature of 25 degrees Celsius and a low temperature of 20 degrees Celsius.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
