---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-08-12 09:03:22 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-08-12.mp3
summary: "Typhoon Hits Iwate Prefecture, Record Rainfall Expected | Engine Smoke Reported at Narita Airport, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for August 12th, 2024."
duration: "221"
length: "03:41"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "29"
weather_sapporo_description: "Cloudy"
weather_sapporo_image: "cloudy2.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "34"
weather_tokyo_description: "Sunny"
weather_tokyo_image: "sunny.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "37"
weather_nagoya_description: "Sunny"
weather_nagoya_image: "sunny.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "35"
weather_osaka_description: "Sunny"
weather_osaka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "33"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Sunny"
weather_fukuoka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "30"
weather_naha_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_naha_image: "rainy1.png"

proverb_id: "76"
proverb_ja: "長い物には巻かれろ"
proverb_hiragana: "ながいものにはまかれろ"
proverb_en: "It's wise to yield to those more powerful."
proverb_lit: "Be wound by long things."

currency_usd: "146.8"
currency_gbp: "186.9"
currency_eur: "160.3"
currency_cad: "106.8"
currency_aud: "96.5"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240812/k10014546761000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240812/k10014546861000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240811/k10014546171000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240812/k10014546941000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240812/k10014546821000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240812/k10014546901000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240812/k10014546851000.html"

news_story_title1: "台風5号 岩手県大船渡市に上陸 線状降水帯発生おそれも"
news_story_title2: "【ライブカメラ】台風5号 東北に上陸 各地の状況は"
news_story_title3: "【動画 気象予報士解説】台風5号 見通しは（午前8時放送）"
news_story_title4: "成田空港 着陸機の“エンジンから白煙”通報 B滑走路が閉鎖"
news_story_title5: "【台風5号 河川情報】岩手県内で「氾濫危険水位」超過の河川も"
news_story_title6: "関東甲信 東海 九州 危険な暑さの見込み 熱中症対策の徹底を"
news_story_title7: "【台風5号 交通 見通し】空の便・鉄道・高速道・海の便に影響"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on August 12th, 2024. In our top stories today, Typhoon No. 5 has made landfall in Oofunato City in Iwate Prefecture. The prefecture is experiencing record-breaking heavy rain, and there is a possibility of a linear rainband forming over Iwate, Miyagi, and Aomori Prefectures, leading to further increase in rainfall. The Japan Meteorological Agency is urging caution against landslides, river flooding, inundation of low-lying areas, and increased water levels. Please ensure your safety and stay in secure locations.

Moving on to our next story, at around 8:30 am this morning, Typhoon No. 5 made landfall near Oofunato City in Iwate Prefecture. This is the first time a typhoon has made landfall in Iwate since Typhoon No. 10 in August 2016 and the third time a typhoon has made landfall on the Pacific side of the Tohoku region since records began in 1951. Similar to the previous story, Iwate, Miyagi, and Aomori Prefectures are experiencing heavy rain, and there is a possibility of a linear rainband forming, which could result in increased rainfall. The Japan Meteorological Agency is warning against landslides, river flooding, inundation of low-lying areas, and increased water levels. Live footage is available to keep you updated on the situation.

Now, let's talk about the weather forecast for Typhoon No. 5. The typhoon is expected to make landfall on the Pacific side of the Tohoku region soon. As mentioned earlier, Iwate Prefecture is experiencing record-breaking heavy rain, and there is a possibility of a linear rainband forming over Iwate, Miyagi, and Aomori Prefectures, leading to further increase in rainfall. The Japan Meteorological Agency is urging caution against landslides, river flooding, inundation of low-lying areas, and increased water levels. For more details on the forecast and important points to note, we have a commentary from Meteorologist Toshiyuki Minami (broadcasted on the morning news at 8 am). Please note that the commentary is not available through data broadcasting.

In other news, there was an incident reported at Narita Airport this morning. At around 7:50 am, there was a report of white smoke coming from the left engine of Singapore Airlines Flight 638, which had just landed on Runway B. The Narita City Fire Department is currently investigating if there are any injuries. The aircraft is currently stopped on the taxiway, and Runway B has been closed while the investigation is ongoing.

Moving on, according to data from the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, as of 7 am this morning, five rivers in Iwate Prefecture have exceeded their danger levels. The ministry is closely monitoring the situation.

Next, let's talk about the weather forecast for the Kanto-Koshinetsu, Tokai, and Kyushu regions. The temperature is expected to rise significantly, leading to dangerous heat in these areas. Please continue to take precautions against heatstroke.

Lastly, due to the approaching Typhoon No. 5, there are disruptions to air travel, trains, highways, and maritime transportation in the Tohoku region today. Airlines, railways, and other transportation companies are advising passengers to check their websites for the latest updates on the situation. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be sunny with a maximum temperature of 34°C and a minimum temperature of 29°C. There is no chance of rain and the humidity will be around 58%. Enjoy the day!  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
