---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-06-07 09:09:36 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-06-07.mp3
summary: "Saitama University Introduces 'Autonomous Driving Major' / Tokyo University Students Protest Tuition Increase, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for June 7th, 2024."
duration: "168"
length: "02:48"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "20"
weather_sapporo_description: "Sunny"
weather_sapporo_image: "sunny.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "26"
weather_tokyo_description: "Cloudy"
weather_tokyo_image: "cloudy2.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "25"
weather_nagoya_description: "Light rain shower"
weather_nagoya_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "28"
weather_osaka_description: "Sunny"
weather_osaka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "26"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Partly Cloudy"
weather_fukuoka_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "25"
weather_naha_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_naha_image: "rainy1.png"

proverb_id: "53"
proverb_ja: "善は急げ"
proverb_hiragana: "ぜんはいそげ"
proverb_en: "Make hay while the sun shines."
proverb_lit: "Hurry the good."

currency_usd: "156.2"
currency_gbp: "199.6"
currency_eur: "169.8"
currency_cad: "114.0"
currency_aud: "103.7"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240607/k10014473281000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240607/k10014473311000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240607/k10014473391000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240607/k10014473111000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240607/k10014473431000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240607/k10014473271000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240607/k10014473401000.html"

news_story_title1: "埼玉工業大学 来年度から「自動運転専攻」コース 国内大学で初"
news_story_title2: "東京大学で学生らが反対集会 授業料引き上げ検討受け"
news_story_title3: "三菱UFJ銀行など3社に行政処分行うよう金融庁に勧告方向で検討"
news_story_title4: "「一連の問題の根本原因に対処」東電 IAEAから報告書 受け取る"
news_story_title5: "秋田新幹線 運転再開"
news_story_title6: "“秘密漏えい” 鹿児島県警元部長 差出人に自分の名前 書かず"
news_story_title7: "秋田新幹線 秋田～大曲の上下線で運転見合わせ 人身事故の影響"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on June 7th, 2024. In today's news, Saitama University has announced that it will be the first university in Japan to introduce a 'Autonomous Driving Major' course starting next year. This new course will be offered in the Faculty of Engineering and aims to prepare students for the growing field of autonomous driving technology.

Moving on to our next story, students at Tokyo University held a protest rally against the proposed tuition increase. The university has been considering raising tuition fees, prompting students to demand the withdrawal of the proposal and more transparency in providing information to students.

In other news, the Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission is considering recommending administrative penalties to three companies under the Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group umbrella, including a bank and two securities firms. It has been revealed that these companies shared non-public information of client companies without obtaining consent. The commission's investigation found that the sharing of information was conducted without proper procedures, leading to the consideration of administrative penalties.

Turning to our next story, Tokyo Electric Power Company (TEPCO) has received a report from the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) regarding the investigation into the issues at the Kashiwazaki-Kariwa Nuclear Power Plant in Niigata Prefecture. TEPCO announced that they have addressed the root causes of the problems raised during the IAEA's on-site inspection earlier this spring.

In transportation news, the Akita Shinkansen line has resumed operations. The line had been temporarily suspended between Akita Station and Omagari Station due to a personal accident. Services have now resumed as of 6:30 am.

Moving on to our final story, in the case of the former head of the Kagoshima Prefectural Police's Community Safety Department who was arrested for leaking internal documents containing personal information, it has been revealed that the former head did not include their own name as the sender when mailing the documents. Instead, they listed the name and contact information of a former head of the Criminal Affairs Department. The police are currently investigating the motive and details behind the leak.

That wraps up today's news report. Thank you for listening to Japan Daily News. Stay tuned for more updates tomorrow. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be partly cloudy with a maximum temperature of 26°C and a minimum temperature of 20°C. There is a 91% chance of sunshine and a 0% chance of rain. The UV index is 7, indicating high sun exposure. Enjoy your day!  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
