---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-08-07 13:24:50 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-08-07.mp3
summary: "Hiroshima Students Learn About Peace from Atomic Bomb Survivors, Suspected Arsonist Arrested in Saitama, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for August 7th, 2024."
duration: "193"
length: "03:13"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "28"
weather_sapporo_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_sapporo_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "33"
weather_tokyo_description: "Partly Cloudy"
weather_tokyo_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "36"
weather_nagoya_description: "Sunny"
weather_nagoya_image: "sunny.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "35"
weather_osaka_description: "Sunny"
weather_osaka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "33"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Sunny"
weather_fukuoka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "31"
weather_naha_description: "Partly Cloudy"
weather_naha_image: "cloudy1.png"

proverb_id: "8"
proverb_ja: "虻蜂とらず"
proverb_hiragana: "あぶはちとらず"
proverb_en: "Trying to catch two things at once and getting neither."
proverb_lit: "Catch neither the horsefly nor the bee."

currency_usd: "144.9"
currency_gbp: "184.2"
currency_eur: "158.2"
currency_cad: "104.8"
currency_aud: "94.0"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240807/k10014540081000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240807/k10014539431000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240807/k10014539631000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240807/k10014539371000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240807/k10014540021000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240807/k10014539981000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240807/k10014540031000.html"

news_story_title1: "広島 全国から集まった中高校生 被爆者の証言聞き平和を学ぶ"
news_story_title2: "埼玉 連続不審火 容疑者の自宅から複数のマッチ箱押収"
news_story_title3: "関東甲信 大気が非常に不安定 非常に激しい雨が降るおそれ"
news_story_title4: "きょうも西日本で危険な暑さ 東北～西日本で大気不安定 警戒を"
news_story_title5: "石川 珠洲 断水続く真浦町 輪島から水をひき9月中の復旧目指す"
news_story_title6: "群馬 みなかみ町 住宅で親子死傷 殺人事件か 息子の行方捜す"
news_story_title7: "5月の生活保護申請件数 全国で2万3952件 2か月連続前年上回る"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on August 7th, 2024. In Hiroshima, students from across the country gathered to learn about the horrors of the atomic bomb and the importance of peace. On the occasion of 'Hiroshima Remembrance Day,' middle and high school students listened to the testimonies of atomic bomb survivors, gaining insights into the tragedy and the significance of peace.

Moving on to Saitama, a suspected arsonist has been arrested in connection with a series of suspicious fires. The 61-year-old suspect, who was apprehended for setting fire to a warehouse in Kuki City, had multiple matchboxes seized from his residence. The police are investigating the methods used to start the fires and looking into any potential links to the other incidents. The suspect denies the allegations.

Now, let's turn our attention to the weather. The Kanto-Koshin region is expected to experience extremely unstable atmospheric conditions today, with the possibility of intense rainfall accompanied by thunderstorms. The Japan Meteorological Agency has issued warnings for residents to be cautious of flooding, sudden river rises, and landslides, particularly in low-lying areas.

Meanwhile, the western regions of Japan are bracing for dangerous heat. Today, western Japan is forecasted to face scorching temperatures, requiring continued measures to prevent heatstroke. Additionally, the eastern to western regions, including Tohoku, are experiencing highly unstable atmospheric conditions, with the potential for localized heavy rain and the need for vigilance against flooding and river rises.

In Ishikawa, the town of Masuura in Suzu City continues to face a water shortage, more than seven months after the Noto Peninsula earthquake. To address this issue, Suzu City plans to establish new water pipes from neighboring Wajima City in an effort to restore water supply by September.

Lastly, in Gunma, a tragic incident occurred in Minakami Town. In the early morning hours, a residence was discovered with an elderly man in his 90s and a woman in her 50s, both covered in blood. The father was pronounced dead, while the daughter received medical treatment for her injuries. The police are treating the case as a murder and are searching for the son, who has been missing since the incident and is believed to have knowledge of the situation.

In other news, the number of applications for public assistance in May reached 23,952 nationwide, marking a 5.6% increase compared to the same month last year. This is the second consecutive month with a higher number of applications than the previous year. According to the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, a total of 23,952 applications for public assistance were submitted in May, representing a 5.6% increase of 1,272 applications compared to the same month last year. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, there will be patchy rain nearby with a high of 33°C and a low of 28°C.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
