---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-03-22 08:47:56 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-03-22.mp3
summary: "Measles Vaccine Prioritized for Pediatricians and Others Performing Regular Vaccinations, and Kumamoto Court to Deliver Verdict on Minamata Disease Lawsuit, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for March 22nd, 2024."
duration: "222"
length: "03:42"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "2"
weather_sapporo_description: "Sunny"
weather_sapporo_image: "sunny.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "11"
weather_tokyo_description: "Sunny"
weather_tokyo_image: "sunny.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "12"
weather_nagoya_description: "Sunny"
weather_nagoya_image: "sunny.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "11"
weather_osaka_description: "Sunny"
weather_osaka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "15"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Sunny"
weather_fukuoka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "20"
weather_naha_description: "Partly Cloudy "
weather_naha_image: "unknown.png"

proverb_id: "12"
proverb_ja: "石橋をたたいて渡る"
proverb_hiragana: "いしばしをたたいてわたる"
proverb_en: "Being overly cautious."
proverb_lit: "Hitting a stone bridge before crossing."

currency_usd: "151.3"
currency_gbp: "192.7"
currency_eur: "165.0"
currency_cad: "112.0"
currency_aud: "99.8"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240322/k10014398621000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240322/k10014398611000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240322/k10014398551000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240322/k10014398561000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240322/k10014398671000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240322/k10014398681000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240321/k10014397571000.html"

news_story_title1: "はしかワクチン 定期接種実施の小児科など優先供給通知 厚労省"
news_story_title2: "水俣病救済めぐる集団訴訟 きょう判決 熊本地裁"
news_story_title3: "浅間山“大噴火”想定 初の広域避難計画 周辺自治体など協議会"
news_story_title4: "両陛下 きょう能登半島地震で被害の輪島市と珠洲市訪問へ"
news_story_title5: "北海道 羊蹄山の雪崩で2人死亡の調査結果発表 日本雪氷学会"
news_story_title6: "北海道 4人死亡事故 トラック運転手の管理者ら書類送検へ"
news_story_title7: "ドジャース大谷翔平の通訳 水原氏解雇 米メディア大きく伝える"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on March 22nd, 2024. In today's news, the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare has issued a notice urging wholesalers and retailers to prioritize the supply of measles vaccines to pediatricians and other healthcare providers who perform regular vaccinations. This comes in response to the increasing demand for vaccines due to the confirmed cases of measles nationwide. The aim is to ensure the smooth implementation of regular vaccinations for children.

Moving on to our next story, the Kumamoto District Court is set to deliver a verdict today in a collective lawsuit filed by more than 140 individuals from Kumamoto and Kagoshima. They are seeking compensation from the government, Kumamoto Prefecture, and the companies responsible, arguing that it is unjust to exclude them from the relief measures for Minamata disease. Last year, the Osaka District Court recognized all the plaintiffs as victims of Minamata disease and ordered compensation from the government. The judgment in this case will determine how the eligibility for relief measures will be decided.

Next, an association consisting of municipalities in the vicinity of Mount Asama, located on the border of Gunma and Nagano prefectures, has compiled a comprehensive evacuation plan in anticipation of a major eruption. The plan covers a wide area and aims to address the impact of volcanic ash, with up to 190,000 people in six surrounding cities and towns being the target of the plan.

In other news, Their Majesties the Emperor and Empress will visit the cities of Wajima and Suzu in Ishikawa Prefecture today to offer their condolences to those affected by the Noto Peninsula earthquake, which caused significant damage.

Moving on, the Japan Society of Snow and Ice has announced the results of its investigation into the avalanche that occurred on Mount Yotei in Hokkaido in March. Two foreign nationals who were skiing in the backcountry were caught in the avalanche and unfortunately lost their lives. The investigation suggests that the avalanche occurred along a ravine, burying the victims in a relatively deep location.

In another tragic incident in Hokkaido, the police plan to send documents to the prosecutor's office today to recommend the indictment of two individuals, including the supervisor of a truck driver involved in a fatal accident. Last year, a truck collided with a bus on a national highway in Yakumo-cho, Hokkaido, resulting in the deaths of four people. It is suspected that the supervisor failed to replace the driver despite the driver reporting feeling unwell the day before the accident. The police intend to charge the two individuals with negligent driving resulting in death or injury.

Lastly, the Los Angeles Dodgers have announced the dismissal of Kazuhira Mizuhara, the interpreter for Shohei Ohtani. Multiple American media outlets have reported Mizuhara's alleged involvement in illegal gambling. However, the team has not provided specific reasons for the dismissal and stated that they are gathering information. Mizuhara reportedly admitted to his teammates after a game on the night of the 20th that he has a gambling addiction and took responsibility for his actions. Ohtani, on the other hand, did not provide any comments during the interview after the game on the night of the 21st and returned to Los Angeles with the team from South Korea. We will also provide more information on gambling addiction in our coverage.

That's all for today's news. Thank you for listening to Japan Daily News. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be sunny with a maximum temperature of 11°C and a minimum temperature of 5°C.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
