---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-03-14 08:53:09 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-03-14.mp3
summary: "Floating Offshore Wind Power Research Consortium Established by 14 Companies | 8-Year-Old Receives Appreciation Letter from Japan Coast Guard, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for March 14th, 2024."
duration: "177"
length: "02:57"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "2"
weather_sapporo_description: "Light snow"
weather_sapporo_image: "snowy.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "13"
weather_tokyo_description: "Sunny"
weather_tokyo_image: "sunny.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "14"
weather_nagoya_description: "Sunny"
weather_nagoya_image: "sunny.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "14"
weather_osaka_description: "Partly Cloudy "
weather_osaka_image: "unknown.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "15"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Partly Cloudy "
weather_fukuoka_image: "unknown.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "19"
weather_naha_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_naha_image: "unknown.png"

proverb_id: "7"
proverb_ja: "痘痕も靨"
proverb_hiragana: "あばたもえくぼ"
proverb_en: "There can be beauty in ugliness."
proverb_lit: "Even pockmarks appear as dimples."

currency_usd: "147.9"
currency_gbp: "189.4"
currency_eur: "161.8"
currency_cad: "109.6"
currency_aud: "97.8"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240314/k10014390171000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240314/k10014389281000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240314/k10014389941000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240314/k10014389791000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240314/k10014390201000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240314/k10014389951000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240314/k10014389911000.html"

news_story_title1: "浮体式の洋上風力発電 実用化に向け 14社が研究組織を設立へ"
news_story_title2: "“きれいな海を守る” 絵本作った8歳の児童に海保から感謝状"
news_story_title3: "オスプレイ 国内での飛行を段階的に再開へ 関係自治体の反発も"
news_story_title4: "同性婚訴訟 札幌高裁と東京地裁で判決言い渡しへ 2審で初判断"
news_story_title5: "はしかの症状軽視も… ワクチン予防否定するSNSの誤情報に注意"
news_story_title6: "春闘 大手中心 高水準賃上げ妥結相次ぐ 中小などへ波及焦点に"
news_story_title7: "群馬の酒蔵が石川の地震被害の酒造会社と共同で酒造り始まる"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on March 14th, 2024. In an effort to expand the use of renewable energy, 14 major power companies and trading companies in Japan have formed a research consortium to develop floating offshore wind power, a type of wind power generation that involves placing wind turbines on the sea. The consortium aims to commercialize this technology by jointly developing the necessary infrastructure.

Moving on to our next story, an 8-year-old student from Watari Town in Miyagi Prefecture has received an appreciation letter from the Japan Coast Guard for creating a picture book with the theme of 'Protecting the Beautiful Sea.' The book highlights the importance of preserving the ocean and its marine life.

Now, let's turn our attention to the resumption of flights of the Osprey aircraft in Japan. Following a suspension of flights since a crash incident in November last year, the Osprey aircraft operated by the U.S. military and the Japan Ground Self-Defense Force will gradually resume flights in Japan starting from the 14th of March. The Ministry of Defense has emphasized the importance of information sharing with local governments and seeking understanding, as some municipalities have expressed concerns about the resumption.

Moving on to the legal front, the Sapporo High Court and the Tokyo District Court are set to deliver their judgments on a same-sex marriage lawsuit. The lawsuit challenges the constitutionality of provisions in the Civil Code that do not recognize same-sex marriages. Previous rulings in different parts of Japan have varied, with some courts declaring the provisions unconstitutional and others ruling them constitutional. The judgment from the Sapporo High Court on the 14th will be the first decision in the second instance.

Next, a word of caution regarding misinformation on social media. With the recent increase in measles cases, false information denying the effectiveness of vaccines and downplaying the symptoms of measles has been spreading on social media platforms. Measles can be a life-threatening disease, and it is important to be aware of the accurate information and the effectiveness of vaccines.

Shifting our focus to the ongoing spring labor negotiations, many large companies have reached agreements on significant wage increases. However, the impact of these negotiations on small and medium-sized enterprises and non-regular workers remains to be seen, as they have been experiencing negative real wage growth.

Lastly, a sake brewery in Gunma Prefecture has started collaborating with a sake manufacturing company in Ishikawa Prefecture, which was affected by the Noto Peninsula earthquake. The Gunma brewery is providing support by jointly producing sake with the affected company, and the brewing process has already begun. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be partly cloudy with a high of 13°C and a low of 7°C.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
