---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-07-13 09:59:25 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-07-13.mp3
summary: "Search Continues for Missing Individuals in Matsuyama Landslide, Niigata City Focuses on Ensuring Safe Evacuation, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for July 13th, 2024."
duration: "199"
length: "03:19"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "22"
weather_sapporo_description: "Sunny"
weather_sapporo_image: "sunny.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "29"
weather_tokyo_description: "Partly Cloudy"
weather_tokyo_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "31"
weather_nagoya_description: "Partly Cloudy"
weather_nagoya_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "N/A"
weather_osaka_description: "Error fetching weather for Osaka"
weather_osaka_image: "error.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "N/A"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Error fetching weather for Hakata"
weather_fukuoka_image: "error.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "31"
weather_naha_description: "Sunny"
weather_naha_image: "sunny.png"

proverb_id: "36"
proverb_ja: "芸は身を助ける"
proverb_hiragana: "げいはみをたすける"
proverb_en: "A special skill can be a lifesaver in difficult times."
proverb_lit: "Art helps the body."

currency_usd: "158.7"
currency_gbp: "205.8"
currency_eur: "173.0"
currency_cad: "116.6"
currency_aud: "107.5"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240713/k10014510451000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240713/k10014510191000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240712/k10014510501000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240712/k10014510511000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240712/k10014510471000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240712/k10014510461000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240712/k10014509681000.html"

news_story_title1: "松山 土砂崩れ 連絡とれない男女3人の捜索続く"
news_story_title2: "新潟・福島豪雨20年 新潟 三条市では“確実な避難”へ取り組み"
news_story_title3: "ネパール 土砂崩れでバス2台川に流される 乗客ら50人以上不明"
news_story_title4: "貝殻島周辺 ロシア 15日から日本漁船操業停止決定“灯台修理”"
news_story_title5: "損保ジャパンから代理店出向の社員 顧客情報約2700件を漏えい"
news_story_title6: "新型コロナ 1医療機関当たり平均患者数 8.07人 9週連続増加"
news_story_title7: "自衛官ら218人を処分 海幕長交代へ 特定秘密めぐる違反などで"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on July 13th, 2024. In today's news, search and rescue operations are ongoing in Matsuyama City after a landslide occurred early yesterday morning. The landslide, which took place in the mountainous area where Matsuyama Castle is located, has left three individuals unaccounted for. It is believed that they were living in a house that was engulfed by the landslide. Despite facing challenges due to the large amount of debris, firefighters and police have been tirelessly searching for the missing individuals.

Moving on to another news story, it has been 20 years since the devastating 'Niigata-Fukushima Heavy Rain' in 2004, which claimed the lives of 16 people in Niigata and Fukushima Prefectures. In the city of Sanjo, Niigata Prefecture, which suffered significant damage, efforts are being made to ensure a reliable evacuation system, particularly for the elderly population. The local community is working together to implement measures that prioritize the safety of residents.

In Nepal, a landslide has occurred in the mountainous region of central Nepal, resulting in two buses being swept away by a river. According to the police, the whereabouts of more than 50 passengers are currently unknown.

Shifting our focus to international news, Russia's Ministry of Foreign Affairs has announced the suspension of Japanese fishing operations around the vicinity of Kaigara Island, part of the Habomai Islands in the Northern Territories. The suspension, which will begin on July 15th, is to facilitate the repair of a lighthouse on the island. The local fishing cooperative has stated that they have not received any official communication regarding this decision.

In other news, it has been revealed that an employee seconded from Sompo Japan Insurance has leaked approximately 2,700 pieces of customer information, including contract details of corporate clients, to their original company. The employee was working at an insurance agency as a representative of Sompo Japan Insurance.

Turning our attention to the ongoing COVID-19 situation, the average number of patients per medical institution has reached 8.07, marking the ninth consecutive week of increase. This data, covering the week leading up to July 7th, shows a significant rise compared to the previous week, with an increase of 1.39 times. All prefectures have reported an increase, with Okinawa being particularly affected, where the average number of patients has exceeded 30.

Lastly, the Ministry of Defense has taken disciplinary action against a total of 218 individuals, including the Vice Minister and top officials of the Self-Defense Forces, due to violations and misconduct related to classified information and receiving diving allowances. This mass disciplinary action is highly unusual, and Defense Minister Kiwara has announced the replacement of the Chief of Staff of the Maritime Self-Defense Force, who had the highest number of violations. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be partly cloudy with a maximum temperature of 29°C and a minimum temperature of 24°C. There is a 80% chance of rain and a UV index of 7.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
