---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-02-27 08:38:31 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-02-27.mp3
summary: "Suspect in 1970s Bombing Case Identified | Strong Winds and High Waves Expected, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for February 27th, 2024."
duration: "177"
length: "02:57"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "-1"
weather_sapporo_description: "Light snow"
weather_sapporo_image: "snowy.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "10"
weather_tokyo_description: "Sunny"
weather_tokyo_image: "sunny.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "10"
weather_nagoya_description: "Sunny"
weather_nagoya_image: "sunny.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "8"
weather_osaka_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_osaka_image: "unknown.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "9"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Partly Cloudy "
weather_fukuoka_image: "unknown.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "18"
weather_naha_description: "Overcast "
weather_naha_image: "unknown.png"

proverb_id: "124"
proverb_ja: "果報は寝て待て"
proverb_hiragana: "かほうはねてまて"
proverb_en: "Good things comes to those who wait"
proverb_lit: "Wait for good fortune by sleeping"

currency_usd: "150.6"
currency_gbp: "191.2"
currency_eur: "163.4"
currency_cad: "111.4"
currency_aud: "98.6"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240227/k10014371761000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240227/k10014371731000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240227/k10014371521000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240227/k10014371391000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240227/k10014371541000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240226/k10014371621000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240226/k10014371461000.html"

news_story_title1: "桐島聡容疑者本人と特定 書類送検へ 警視庁 DNA鑑定の結果"
news_story_title2: "東北の太平洋側や関東沿岸部中心に風強まる 高波暴風に警戒を"
news_story_title3: "遮断機が下りないトラブル 昨年度までの5年間で少なくとも48件"
news_story_title4: "警察官の心理的負担減少へ 専門家らのチーム 石川県警に派遣"
news_story_title5: "ホストクラブ看板 都の条例違反少なくとも数十件 警視庁指導へ"
news_story_title6: "山陽新幹線と九州新幹線 全線で運転再開"
news_story_title7: "福岡 みやま市 小学校で男子児童が給食詰まらせ死亡"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on February 27th, 2024. In our first news story, the Tokyo Metropolitan Police have identified the suspect in the 1970s serial bombing case. The suspect, Satoru Kirishima, was a member of the 'East Asia Anti-Japan Armed Front'. He claimed to be Kirishima and passed away last month in a hospital in Kanagawa Prefecture. The police plan to send the case to the prosecutor's office even though the suspect is deceased.

Moving on to weather news, the Pacific side of Tohoku and the coastal areas of Kanto are experiencing strong winds and high waves due to the influence of a developing low-pressure system. The Japan Meteorological Agency is urging caution against high waves and strong winds in these areas.

Next, there have been multiple incidents where train crossing barriers fail to come down as trains approach. According to information obtained through a public information request by NHK, railway companies reported at least 48 cases of this issue in the past five years. Experts have pointed out that this could lead to serious accidents if not addressed, and there is a possibility of such incidents increasing in the future.

In an effort to reduce the psychological burden on police officers responding to the Noto Peninsula earthquake, the National Police Agency has dispatched a team of certified psychologists and experts in disaster stress care to the Ishikawa Prefectural Police.

Moving on to our next news story, it has been revealed that there are dozens of cases of violations of Tokyo's regulations regarding host club signs in the Kabukicho area. These cases involve signs being installed without the necessary permits and often feature photos of top-ranking hosts, with some hosts pressuring customers to order expensive services by saying they want to be featured on the signs. The Tokyo Metropolitan Police will work with Shinjuku Ward to provide guidance and address this issue.

In transportation news, both the Sanyo Shinkansen and Kyushu Shinkansen lines have resumed full operation. JR West Japan reported that due to a person trespassing on the tracks from Hakata Station, the Sanyo Shinkansen was temporarily suspended between Hakata and Kokura stations, while the Kyushu Shinkansen was temporarily suspended between Hakata and Shin-Tosu stations. However, after safety checks were completed, both lines resumed operation around 11:30 PM.

Lastly, a tragic incident occurred at an elementary school in Miyama City, Fukuoka. A first-grade male student choked on his school lunch and was taken to the hospital but unfortunately passed away. The city is currently investigating the details of the incident, which is believed to be caused by choking on a quail egg. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be sunny with a maximum temperature of 10°C and a minimum temperature of 5°C.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
