---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-07-27 08:38:18 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-07-27.mp3
summary: "Record Rainfall in Akita and Yamagata; Active Cyber Defense Considered, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for July 27th, 2024."
duration: "203"
length: "03:23"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "23"
weather_sapporo_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_sapporo_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "33"
weather_tokyo_description: "Partly Cloudy"
weather_tokyo_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "37"
weather_nagoya_description: "Sunny"
weather_nagoya_image: "sunny.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "33"
weather_osaka_description: "Sunny"
weather_osaka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "34"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Sunny"
weather_fukuoka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "30"
weather_naha_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_naha_image: "rainy1.png"

proverb_id: "61"
proverb_ja: "塵も積もれば山となる"
proverb_hiragana: "ちりもつもればやまとなる"
proverb_en: "Even small amounts accumulate to become a mountain."
proverb_lit: "Even dust, if piled, becomes a mountain."

currency_usd: "154.6"
currency_gbp: "198.8"
currency_eur: "167.8"
currency_cad: "111.9"
currency_aud: "101.3"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240727/k10014525751000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240727/k10014525501000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240727/k10014525701000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240727/k10014525521000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240727/k10014525581000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240727/k10014525901000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240727/k10014525511000.html"

news_story_title1: "【被害・影響】秋田と山形で記録的大雨 2人死亡 浸水被害も"
news_story_title2: "“能動的サイバー防御” 警察権で攻撃元サーバー無害化も検討"
news_story_title3: "小林製薬 紅麹原料供給2社の製品でプベルル酸検出の原料使用か"
news_story_title4: "東北 日本海側を中心に今月30日ごろにかけて再び大雨の見込み"
news_story_title5: "JR東海 東海道新幹線の保守用車両 追突側の車両は当面運用停止"
news_story_title6: "中国 日本人学校バス襲撃 死亡した中国人女性に「勇士」称号"
news_story_title7: "山形 記録的な大雨で被害深刻な戸沢村 川沿いで5.7m浸水か"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on July 27th, 2024. In our top news stories today:

Record rainfall in Akita and Yamagata

In Akita and Yamagata prefectures, heavy rainfall has caused severe flooding and claimed the lives of two individuals. The victims include a man who was found in a swollen river and another man, believed to be a police officer, who was on his way to rescue people and tragically lost his life. The torrential downpour has led to significant damage and disruption in the affected areas.

Active cyber defense under consideration

The Japanese government is contemplating the implementation of 'active cyber defense' to proactively prevent cyber attacks. This approach would involve the authorities infiltrating and neutralizing servers used by attackers, based on the police's power to protect national security. The aim is to target criminal organizations and safeguard domestic security.

Kobayashi Pharmaceutical investigates potential contamination

Kobayashi Pharmaceutical, a company involved in the issue of individuals developing kidney diseases after consuming supplements containing red yeast rice, has revealed that two suppliers' products tested positive for 'pulvinic acid,' which is derived from blue mold. So far, no health issues have been reported from the use of these products.

Heavy rainfall expected in Tohoku region

The Tohoku region, particularly the Japan Sea side, is forecasted to experience heavy rainfall again around the 30th of this month. Given the heightened risk of disasters even with minimal rainfall, authorities are urging residents to remain vigilant against flooding, landslides, and other potential hazards, and to evacuate promptly if necessary.

Maintenance vehicle suspended on Tokaido Shinkansen

Following a collision between two maintenance vehicles on the Tokaido Shinkansen on the 22nd of this month, which caused significant disruptions for passengers, JR Tokai has decided to temporarily suspend the use of the vehicle responsible for the collision. The company is prioritizing the identification of the accident's cause.

Chinese woman receives 'hero' title for protecting Japanese school bus

In Suzhou, Jiangsu Province, China, a Chinese woman who bravely defended a Japanese school bus from a knife-wielding attacker in June has been awarded the title of 'hero' by the Communist Party of China. The woman tragically lost her life in the incident, and her courageous actions have been recognized as a symbol of fighting for justice.

Severe flooding in Tozawa Village, Yamagata

The extent of the damage caused by the record rainfall in Yamagata Prefecture is becoming increasingly apparent. Aerial images taken by the Geospatial Information Authority of Japan indicate that Tozawa Village has been severely affected, with floodwaters reaching a depth of 5.7 meters along the river and widespread flooding throughout the community. The situation remains critical in the area. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be partly cloudy with a maximum temperature of 33°C and a minimum temperature of 29°C. There is a 0% chance of rain and the UV index is 9, which means it is very high. Enjoy your day!  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
