---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-05-25 08:56:12 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-05-25.mp3
summary: "Accidents and Investigations: Arm Ring Incident and Hit-and-Run Case, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for May 25th, 2024."
duration: "192"
length: "03:12"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "12"
weather_sapporo_description: "Partly Cloudy"
weather_sapporo_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "20"
weather_tokyo_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_tokyo_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "27"
weather_nagoya_description: "Sunny"
weather_nagoya_image: "sunny.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "25"
weather_osaka_description: "Sunny"
weather_osaka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "26"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Sunny"
weather_fukuoka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "26"
weather_naha_description: "Light rain shower"
weather_naha_image: "rainy1.png"

proverb_id: "51"
proverb_ja: "雀百まで踊り忘れず"
proverb_hiragana: "すずめひゃくまでおどりわすれず"
proverb_en: "What is learned in the cradle is carried to the grave."
proverb_lit: "The sparrow does not forget its dance, even up to a hundred."

currency_usd: "157.0"
currency_gbp: "199.6"
currency_eur: "170.4"
currency_cad: "114.5"
currency_aud: "103.8"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240525/k10014459261000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240525/k10014460261000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240525/k10014460011000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240524/k10014460081000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240524/k10014460071000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240524/k10014460031000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240524/k10014459941000.html"

news_story_title1: "「アームリング付き浮き具」で事故 正しい方法で着用を"
news_story_title2: "埼玉 本庄 路上で倒れていた男性死亡 ひき逃げ事件として捜査"
news_story_title3: "小林製薬の紅麹サプリ摂取 健康被害の約2000人の調査結果発表"
news_story_title4: "在留外国人の保険料納付状況など初調査へ 厚労省"
news_story_title5: "積水ハウス サイバー攻撃で顧客らのメールアドレスなど漏えい"
news_story_title6: "五輪談合事件 初公判で制作会社と専務が無罪主張 東京地裁"
news_story_title7: "アマゾン業務委託の配達員 残業代求め 配達請け負う会社を提訴"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on May 25th, 2024. In today's news, we have two significant stories to discuss.

First, a concerning incident involving arm rings used for children's water play. It has come to light that a 3-year-old child was involved in an accident due to incorrect usage of the arm ring, resulting in a temporary cardiac arrest. The proper way to wear these flotation devices is being questioned, and it serves as a reminder for parents and caregivers to ensure the safety of children during water activities.

Moving on to a tragic incident in Honjo, Saitama, where a man in his 60s was found collapsed on the roadside and later pronounced dead. The police are investigating this as a hit-and-run case based on the circumstances at the scene. Authorities are working to gather more information and identify the responsible party.

In other news, the joint press conference held by Kobayashi Pharmaceutical and Osaka City revealed the results of an investigation into health damage caused by the consumption of red yeast rice supplements. Approximately 2,000 individuals who reported health issues after taking supplements containing the ingredient were included in the study. The findings provide valuable insights into the potential risks associated with these products.

The Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare has announced the initiation of its first survey on the payment status of insurance premiums by foreign residents in Japan. This survey aims to assess the extent to which foreign residents contribute to and benefit from various insurance systems, including pension and healthcare. The results will help inform policies and support the integration of foreign residents into society.

In a concerning development, major housing manufacturer Sekisui House has disclosed a cyber attack that resulted in the leakage of approximately 290,000 email addresses belonging to customers and employees. The company is taking immediate steps to address the breach and ensure the protection of personal information.

Shifting gears to the ongoing Olympic bid-rigging case, the trial for the event production company and its executive accused of illegal bidding manipulation has commenced. During the initial hearing, both the company and its executive pleaded not guilty, asserting their participation in the bidding process was fair and transparent. The trial will continue as the court examines the evidence and testimonies.

Lastly, a group of delivery drivers contracted by Amazon, who claim to work under conditions similar to directly employed workers, have filed a lawsuit demanding overtime pay. Despite performing the same tasks as regular employees, these delivery drivers allege that they are not receiving proper compensation for overtime hours. The lawsuit aims to rectify this disparity and ensure fair treatment for all workers involved in the delivery process.

That concludes today's news report. Stay tuned for more updates from Japan Daily News. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be mostly clear with a high temperature of 20°C and a low temperature of 18°C. There is a slight chance of rain in the afternoon. Enjoy your day!  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
