---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-06-30 13:08:51 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-06-30.mp3
summary: "Kumamoto Remembers Victims of Heavy Rain Disaster | Tokyo Implements Ban on LED Advertising, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for June 30th, 2024."
duration: "178"
length: "02:58"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "27"
weather_sapporo_description: "Partly cloudy"
weather_sapporo_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "27"
weather_tokyo_description: "Partly cloudy"
weather_tokyo_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "24"
weather_nagoya_description: "Moderate rain"
weather_nagoya_image: "rainy2.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "24"
weather_osaka_description: "Light rain"
weather_osaka_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "27"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Overcast"
weather_fukuoka_image: "cloudy3.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "30"
weather_naha_description: "Partly cloudy"
weather_naha_image: "cloudy1.png"

proverb_id: "41"
proverb_ja: "この親にしてこの子あり"
proverb_hiragana: "このおやにしてこのこあり"
proverb_en: "A child's behaviour reflects its parents."
proverb_lit: "Like parent, like child."

currency_usd: "160.5"
currency_gbp: "203.3"
currency_eur: "171.8"
currency_cad: "117.2"
currency_aud: "107.0"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240630/k10014497171000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240630/k10014497151000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240630/k10014497001000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240630/k10014496991000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240630/k10014497021000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240629/k10014496951000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240630/k10014496891000.html"

news_story_title1: "熊本県で67人犠牲2人不明 豪雨災害から4年を前に 人吉で追悼式"
news_story_title2: "断水時役立つ「災害用トイレ」など 災害対策学ぶイベント 渋谷"
news_story_title3: "北日本 7月1日にかけて 西・東日本 2日にかけて大雨のおそれ"
news_story_title4: "都内走行すべての広告宣伝車 LEDで映像流すなどの広告禁止に"
news_story_title5: "トヨタ系列の車体製造会社に下請法違反の疑い 公取委が勧告へ"
news_story_title6: "山口 椹野川でミャンマー人男性が川に流され死亡"
news_story_title7: "公立高校入試“外国籍の生徒に特別枠など配慮を”文科省が通知"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on June 30th, 2024. In Kumamoto, a memorial service was held in the city of Hitoyoshi to commemorate the victims of the heavy rain disaster that occurred four years ago. The disaster, which took place in Reiwa 2, claimed the lives of 67 people, with two individuals still missing. As the fourth anniversary approaches on July 4th, the affected community came together to pay their respects.

Moving on to Tokyo, the city has implemented a ban on LED advertising for all vehicles engaged in promotional activities. This expansion of regulations, effective from today, prohibits the use of LED screens to display advertisements on trucks and other vehicles throughout the city.

In other news, a disaster preparedness event was held in Shibuya, where participants had the opportunity to learn about disaster response strategies. The event focused on practical experiences, such as learning how to use 'disaster toilets' during water shortages and other emergency situations.

The Japan Meteorological Agency has issued warnings for heavy rain in different regions. Northern Japan is expected to experience intense rainfall throughout July 1st, while western and eastern parts of the country may face heavy rain on July 2nd. The agency has urged caution against potential risks, including landslides and other related disasters.

In Yokohama, a car body manufacturing company affiliated with Toyota Motor Corporation is under investigation for suspected violations of subcontracting laws. It is alleged that the company stored multiple 'molds,' essential for producing components, at subcontracted parts manufacturers without charge, burdening them with expenses. The Fair Trade Commission is preparing to issue recommendations based on subcontracting laws, following a similar case involving Nissan Motor Company earlier this year. The commission has strengthened its monitoring of the automobile industry.

Tragically, a Myanmar man lost his life after being swept away by the Mino River in Yamaguchi City. The incident occurred on the evening of the 29th, while the man was visiting the river for recreational purposes.

Lastly, the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology has notified all prefectures across the country to consider special measures for foreign students in public high school entrance examinations starting from the fiscal year 2024. These measures include the establishment of special quotas for foreign students and the addition of furigana (pronunciation guides) to examination questions to provide better support and consideration for non-native Japanese speakers. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be partly cloudy with a high of 27°C and a low of 23°C.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
