---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-08-01 08:47:08 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-08-01.mp3
summary: "Yamagata Shinkansen Resumes with Reduced Services, Dangerous Heat Expected in Kinki and Tokai Regions, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for August 1st, 2024."
duration: "189"
length: "03:09"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "23"
weather_sapporo_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_sapporo_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "33"
weather_tokyo_description: "Partly Cloudy"
weather_tokyo_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "36"
weather_nagoya_description: "Sunny"
weather_nagoya_image: "sunny.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "35"
weather_osaka_description: "Sunny"
weather_osaka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "34"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Sunny"
weather_fukuoka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "30"
weather_naha_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_naha_image: "rainy1.png"

proverb_id: "93"
proverb_ja: "話上手は聞き上手"
proverb_hiragana: "はなしじょうずはききじょうず"
proverb_en: "Someone good at speaking is also good at listening."
proverb_lit: "A good talker is a good listener."

currency_usd: "150.4"
currency_gbp: "193.1"
currency_eur: "162.9"
currency_cad: "108.7"
currency_aud: "97.8"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240801/k10014532251000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240801/k10014531701000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240801/k10014531781000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240801/k10014531791000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240801/k10014531731000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240801/k10014531801000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240731/k10014531661000.html"

news_story_title1: "山形新幹線 山形～大石田 きょうから本数を減らして運転再開"
news_story_title2: "近畿 東海などで38度以上の危険な暑さ予想 熱中症に警戒"
news_story_title3: "PFASめぐり相談外来で対応にあたる医師らが都に血液検査要請"
news_story_title4: "能登半島地震の発生から7か月 災害関連死100人超の見通し"
news_story_title5: "企業の女性管理職の割合 昨年度12.7％ 前年と変わらず横ばい"
news_story_title6: "山形 記録的大雨から1週間 浸水被害1230棟余 生活再建へ支援を"
news_story_title7: "山形 庄内地方と最上地方 記録的大雨影響で農業に深刻な被害"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on August 1st, 2024. In today's news, the Yamagata Shinkansen has resumed operations between Yamagata Station and Oishida Station with reduced services. Due to the record-breaking heavy rain last month, the train was unable to operate between Yamagata Station and Shinjo Station. However, JR East has now reduced the number of trains and restarted services between Yamagata Station and Oishida Station. On the other hand, it is expected that the train will not be able to operate between Oishida Station and Shinjo Station until mid-August, and bus replacement services will be provided during this time.

Moving on to weather news, temperatures are expected to rise above 38 degrees Celsius in the Kinki and Tokai regions today. This dangerous heatwave requires caution against heatstroke. It is advised to avoid unnecessary outdoor activities and use air conditioning indoors without hesitation.

In other news, doctors and medical professionals who handle consultations regarding per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) have submitted a request to the Tokyo Metropolitan Government, urging them to conduct blood tests. PFAS, a group of chemicals that have been identified as hazardous, has raised concerns, and the doctors are requesting the implementation of blood tests and other measures.

Next, it has been seven months since the Noto Peninsula Earthquake occurred. The earthquake, which resulted in 299 deaths and 3 people missing, has led to over 100 disaster-related deaths due to the stress and fatigue of living in evacuation centers. Continued support and assistance are needed to address the physical and mental health needs of the affected individuals.

Shifting gears to the topic of gender equality in the workplace, a survey conducted by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare on work styles of men and women revealed that the percentage of female managers at the director level or above in companies remained stagnant at 12.7% in the past year. This low representation of women in leadership positions continues to be a challenge, not only within Japan but also compared to other advanced countries.

Lastly, it has been one week since the record-breaking heavy rain hit Yamagata prefecture on July 25th. Over 1,230 houses have been affected by flooding, highlighting the urgent need for support in assessing the extent of the damage and assisting residents in rebuilding their lives. Additionally, the agricultural industry in the Shonai and Mogami regions of Yamagata prefecture has suffered severe damage as a result of the heavy rain. NHK reports that at least 40% of rice paddies in these areas have been affected.

That's all for today's news. Thank you for listening to Japan Daily News. Stay informed and have a great day! And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be partly cloudy with a maximum temperature of 33°C and a minimum temperature of 27°C. There is a 100% chance of rain, and the UV index is 10.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
