---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-03-13 09:48:56 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-03-13.mp3
summary: "Former Vice President of 'Nishiyama Farm' Arrested for Investment Fraud and Japanese Steel Factory Radiation Accident Evaluated as 'Level 3', & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for March 13th, 2024."
duration: "188"
length: "03:08"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "-1"
weather_sapporo_description: "Blowing snow"
weather_sapporo_image: "snowy.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "13"
weather_tokyo_description: "Sunny"
weather_tokyo_image: "sunny.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "11"
weather_nagoya_description: "Sunny"
weather_nagoya_image: "sunny.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "11"
weather_osaka_description: "Partly Cloudy "
weather_osaka_image: "unknown.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "12"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Sunny"
weather_fukuoka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "17"
weather_naha_description: "Partly Cloudy "
weather_naha_image: "unknown.png"

proverb_id: "68"
proverb_ja: "年寄りの冷や水"
proverb_hiragana: "としよりのひやみず"
proverb_en: "Elderly people taking actions without considering their age or strength."
proverb_lit: "Cold water of the elderly."

currency_usd: "147.9"
currency_gbp: "188.7"
currency_eur: "161.3"
currency_cad: "109.5"
currency_aud: "97.7"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240313/k10014388691000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240313/k10014388451000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240313/k10014388471000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240313/k10014388411000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240313/k10014388611000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240313/k10014388181000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240312/k10014388681000.html"

news_story_title1: "「西山ファーム」元副社長逮捕 果物販売うたった投資詐欺事件"
news_story_title2: "日本製鉄工場 被ばく事故 “年間限度10倍相当の放射線”と評価"
news_story_title3: "重い病気の子どもたちが必要としている支援は 初の全国調査へ"
news_story_title4: "きょう政労使会議 “賃上げ 中小に広げる取り組み”意見交換か"
news_story_title5: "東京都 5歳未満の男児がはしか感染 早期の予防接種呼びかけ"
news_story_title6: "「トケマッチ」腕時計の無断売却 額は少なくとも1億5000万円"
news_story_title7: "鹿児島県警 性的暴行事件など4つの事件 個人情報流出"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on March 13th, 2024. In today's news, a former vice president of 'Nishiyama Farm', a tourist farm operating company in Okayama Prefecture, has been arrested in Japan after being extradited from Indonesia. The arrest was made in connection with an investment fraud case involving the sale of fruits for overseas markets. The Aichi Prefectural Police Headquarters plans to investigate the flow of funds, as it is estimated that the company collected over 13 billion yen from more than 900 people nationwide.

In another news story, the Nuclear Regulation Authority has reported to the International Atomic Energy Agency that two employees were exposed to radiation at a Japanese Steel factory in Hyogo Prefecture three years ago. One of the employees received a radiation dose equivalent to 10 times the annual limit, which is 500 milligrays. The severity of the accident has been classified as 'Level 3', indicating a serious abnormality, according to international standards.

Moving on to a different topic, the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare in Japan has decided to conduct a nationwide survey to understand the support needed by children with serious illnesses such as pediatric cancer during their hospitalization and after discharge. This will be the first survey of its kind, where children themselves will be directly interviewed.

As for the upcoming 'Political-Labour-Management Conference' scheduled for today, the government, business community, and labor unions will discuss the initiative to expand the wage increase movement from major companies to small and medium-sized enterprises. The aim is to ensure that wage negotiations become more widespread.

In other news, a five-year-old boy in Tokyo has been infected with measles. The Tokyo Metropolitan Government is urging parents to ensure that their children receive early vaccination, as measles is a preventable disease.

In a shocking incident involving the luxury wristwatch sharing service 'Tokematch', watches entrusted to the company were sold without permission. Investigations have revealed that the sales occurred primarily in January of this year, with the total amount exceeding at least 150 million yen. The former executives of the company, who announced its dissolution, left the country on the same day. The Tokyo Metropolitan Police Department is currently investigating their attempts to convert the watches into cash.

Lastly, the Kagoshima Prefectural Police Headquarters has discovered that personal information, including the names of individuals involved in four different incidents, was leaked to the public. These incidents include a sexual assault case that took place at a lodging facility for COVID-19 patients undergoing medical treatment. The police have apologized to the individuals affected and are investigating the circumstances surrounding the data breach. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be partly cloudy with a maximum temperature of 13°C and a minimum temperature of 7°C. There is a 100% chance of rain and a UV index of 4.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
