---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-02-04 08:56:23 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-02-04.mp3
summary: "Heavy Snow Expected in Kanto Region, Hit-and-Run Incident in Tokyo, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for February 4th, 2024."
duration: "192"
length: "03:12"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "-5"
weather_sapporo_description: "Light snow showers"
weather_sapporo_image: "snowy.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "8"
weather_tokyo_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_tokyo_image: "unknown.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "12"
weather_nagoya_description: "Sunny"
weather_nagoya_image: "sunny.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "10"
weather_osaka_description: "Partly Cloudy "
weather_osaka_image: "unknown.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "11"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_fukuoka_image: "unknown.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "23"
weather_naha_description: "Sunny"
weather_naha_image: "sunny.png"

proverb_id: "55"
proverb_ja: "損して得取る"
proverb_hiragana: "そんしてとくとる"
proverb_en: "Sometimes you have to lose to win."
proverb_lit: "Gain by losing."

currency_usd: "146.6"
currency_gbp: "187.3"
currency_eur: "159.5"
currency_cad: "109.6"
currency_aud: "96.9"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240204/k10014346561000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240204/k10014346761000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240204/k10014346721000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240204/k10014346751000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240204/k10014346771000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240204/k10014346551000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240204/k10014345991000.html"

news_story_title1: "関東甲信 5日から6日にかけ山沿い中心に大雪 東京23区で積雪も"
news_story_title2: "【石川 給水情報】輪島 珠洲など9市町で実施（2月4日）"
news_story_title3: "女性がはねられ死亡 23歳会社員逮捕 ひき逃げの疑い 東京 板橋"
news_story_title4: "【石川 交通影響】鉄道・航空・バス・高速道路（2月4日）"
news_story_title5: "【被害状況】石川 能登地方の一部地域で停電続く（2月4日）"
news_story_title6: "児童虐待 件数を訂正見通し 虐待でないと判断したケースも報告"
news_story_title7: "能登半島地震 SNSで真偽不明や誤りの情報拡散 注意深く対応を"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on February 4th, 2024. In today's news, the Kanto region is bracing for heavy snowfall, with the possibility of snow accumulation even in the Tokyo metropolitan area. The snow is expected to start in the mountainous areas and along the mountainside on the afternoon of the 5th and continue until the morning of the 6th. However, if the temperature drops lower than expected, there is a risk of heavy snowfall even in the flatlands, so please stay tuned for further updates.

Moving on to our next story, a tragic incident occurred in Tokyo's Itabashi ward. A 63-year-old woman was fatally hit by a truck and the driver fled the scene. The Tokyo Metropolitan Police have arrested a 23-year-old company employee on suspicion of hit-and-run. This incident serves as a reminder of the importance of road safety and responsible driving.

Now let's turn our attention to the recent earthquake in Ishikawa prefecture. The earthquake has caused disruptions to various modes of transportation, including railways, air travel, buses, and highways. The authorities are working to restore normal operations as quickly as possible, but please be aware of potential delays or cancellations if you are traveling in the affected areas.

In addition to the transportation issues, some areas in the Noto region of Ishikawa prefecture are experiencing power outages. As of 5 a.m. this morning, approximately 1,800 households are without electricity. The local power company is working to resolve the issue, and we hope that power will be restored soon for the affected residents.

Shifting our focus, concerns have been raised regarding the handling of child abuse cases by child consultation centers. It has been discovered that 20 municipalities may have made inappropriate reports that did not adhere to the national guidelines, including cases where the incidents were determined not to be child abuse. The national government is urging these municipalities to correct their reporting numbers, which may lead to a decrease in the officially reported cases. This situation highlights the need for accurate and consistent reporting to ensure the well-being of children.

Lastly, let's discuss the spread of misinformation and inaccurate information on social media following the Noto Peninsula earthquake last month. While social media played a crucial role in sharing information about the damages and calling for help, it also became a platform for spreading unverified or false information. Some posts even impersonated victims to increase their visibility. Experts emphasize the importance of carefully verifying information before sharing and being cautious of misleading or opportunistic posts. It is crucial to prioritize the accuracy and reliability of information during times of crisis.

That concludes today's news report. Thank you for joining us, and we'll be back tomorrow with more updates from Japan Daily News. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be mostly cloudy with a chance of light drizzle. The temperature will range from 6 to 8 degrees Celsius.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
