---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-01-13 08:46:34 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-01-13.mp3
summary: "Transportation and Infrastructure Impacted by Earthquake | Group Home Evacuation, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for January 13th, 2024."
duration: "190"
length: "03:10"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "-5"
weather_sapporo_description: "Moderate or heavy snow showers"
weather_sapporo_image: "snowy.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "9"
weather_tokyo_description: "Partly cloudy"
weather_tokyo_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "8"
weather_nagoya_description: "Patchy rain possible"
weather_nagoya_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "11"
weather_osaka_description: "Patchy rain possible"
weather_osaka_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "11"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Sunny"
weather_fukuoka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "19"
weather_naha_description: "Sunny"
weather_naha_image: "sunny.png"

proverb_id: "1"
proverb_ja: "青い鳥"
proverb_hiragana: "あおいとり"
proverb_en: "Happiness that is nearby but unnoticed."
proverb_lit: "The blue bird."

currency_usd: "145.6"
currency_gbp: "185.2"
currency_eur: "159.2"
currency_cad: "108.8"
currency_aud: "97.2"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240113/k10014319491000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240113/k10014319401000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240113/k10014319391000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240113/k10014319451000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240113/k10014319251000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240113/k10014319431000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240113/k10014319341000.html"

news_story_title1: "【交通影響 13日】道路・鉄道・航空"
news_story_title2: "【ライフライン 13日】給水情報・停電続く"
news_story_title3: "石川 輪島 被災のグループホーム高齢者が医療態勢整った施設へ"
news_story_title4: "能登半島 被災地は雨 土砂災害に十分注意 日本海側中心に雪も"
news_story_title5: "きょうから大学入学共通テスト 被災の受験生は追試験の対象も"
news_story_title6: "石川 志賀町で震度4の地震 津波の心配なし"
news_story_title7: "「数千年に1回の現象」防潮堤や海沿い岩礁約4m隆起 石川 輪島"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on January 13th, 2024. In today's news, we have updates on the transportation and infrastructure impact caused by an earthquake, as well as the evacuation of a group home.

First, let's talk about the transportation situation. As of 5:00 AM on the 13th, various modes of transportation, including roads, railways, and air travel, have been affected due to the earthquake. The seismic activity has caused disruptions and delays in these transportation systems. We urge everyone to stay updated on the latest information and plan their travel accordingly.

Moving on to the impact on the lifeline services, such as water supply and electricity. Following the earthquake with a magnitude of 7 that was observed in the Noto region of Ishikawa Prefecture on the 1st, there have been ongoing issues with water shortages and power outages. The situation is being continuously monitored and updates will be provided as necessary.

In related news, a group home in Rokkasho, Ishikawa Prefecture, which had taken refuge in a community center after the earthquake, has now relocated to a group home in Komatsu City. This move was made to ensure the well-being of the elderly residents, as their health conditions were at risk of deteriorating. The new facility in Komatsu City has the necessary medical resources to provide proper care.

As for the affected areas, the Noto Peninsula, where the earthquake struck, is currently experiencing rainfall. Due to the impact of the earthquake and other factors, there are areas where the ground has become loose. Therefore, it is crucial to remain vigilant against potential landslides and also be mindful of the risk of hypothermia.

In other news, the national 'University Entrance Common Test,' which has received applications from 490,000 students nationwide, will commence on the 13th. For students who were affected by the Noto Peninsula earthquake and unable to take the main examination, special arrangements will be made for them to take a supplementary test.

In a separate earthquake incident, Ishikawa Prefecture experienced a magnitude 4 earthquake at around 4:04 AM on the 13th. Fortunately, there is no concern regarding a tsunami resulting from this earthquake.

Lastly, let's discuss the impact on the coastal areas of Rokkasho, Ishikawa Prefecture. Experts conducting on-site investigations have confirmed that the seawalls and coastal rock formations have risen by approximately 4 meters as a result of the Noto Peninsula earthquake. The northern side of the peninsula already has a stepped terrain believed to have been formed by previous large-scale earthquakes. Experts have pointed out that a 4-meter uplift is an extremely rare occurrence, happening only once every few thousand years.

That concludes today's news update. Stay tuned for more updates and information on Japan Daily News. Thank you for listening. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be partly cloudy with a maximum temperature of 9°C and a minimum temperature of 3°C. There is a 0% chance of rain and a UV index of 2.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
