---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-06-13 12:01:30 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-06-13.mp3
summary: "Japanese Helicopter Crash Search and Record Number of Mountaineering Accidents, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for June 13th, 2024."
duration: "190"
length: "03:10"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "21"
weather_sapporo_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_sapporo_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "28"
weather_tokyo_description: "Partly Cloudy"
weather_tokyo_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "30"
weather_nagoya_description: "Partly Cloudy"
weather_nagoya_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "32"
weather_osaka_description: "Partly Cloudy"
weather_osaka_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "29"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Sunny"
weather_fukuoka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "27"
weather_naha_description: "Light rain"
weather_naha_image: "rainy1.png"

proverb_id: "103"
proverb_ja: "仏の顔も三度"
proverb_hiragana: "ほとけのかおもさんど"
proverb_en: "Even a patient person will lose their temper eventually."
proverb_lit: "Even Buddha loses patience after three times."

currency_usd: "157.2"
currency_gbp: "200.8"
currency_eur: "169.5"
currency_cad: "114.4"
currency_aud: "104.1"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240613/k10014479561000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240613/k10014479531000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240613/k10014479161000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240613/k10014479411000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240613/k10014479151000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240613/k10014479271000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240613/k10014479141000.html"

news_story_title1: "海自ヘリ衝突事故 鳥島沖合の海底で無人探査機使い機体捜索へ"
news_story_title2: "去年の山岳遭難者 過去最多の3568人 外国人も145人と最多に"
news_story_title3: "在日シンガポール大使館元参事官 盗撮疑いで書類送検 警視庁"
news_story_title4: "旭川女子高生殺害 逮捕の2人 殺害前日 高校生と初めて会ったか"
news_story_title5: "ペリリュー島調査で2柱分の遺骨 日本兵「集団埋葬地」の可能性"
news_story_title6: "秋田市消防 去年7月の記録的な大雨 600件超の通報も出動16.5％"
news_story_title7: "副業サイト詐欺 ペーパーカンパニー50以上設立 追及逃れか"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on June 13th, 2024. In today's news, the Japan Agency for Marine-Earth Science and Technology (JAMSTEC) is set to begin the search for a helicopter that crashed off the coast of Torishima in April. The two helicopters collided during a training exercise and sank to a depth of approximately 5,500 meters. JAMSTEC will use an unmanned underwater vehicle capable of investigating depths of up to 6,000 meters to search for the wreckage.

Moving on to our next story, last year saw a record number of mountaineering accidents in Japan. A total of 3,568 people were involved in accidents, including 145 foreigners. With the summer mountain season approaching, the National Police Agency is urging climbers to plan their trips safely and ensure they have proper equipment.

In other news, a former counselor at the Singapore Embassy in Japan has been indicted for voyeurism. The former counselor was accused of filming people without their consent at a public bathhouse in Tokyo in February. It is unusual for a diplomat to cooperate with a police investigation into misconduct that occurred during their tenure.

Next, we turn to a murder case in Asahikawa. Two suspects, a teenager and a person in their 20s, have been arrested for the murder of a 17-year-old high school student. It is believed that the victim and the suspects had a dispute on social media, and they met for the first time on the day of the murder. The police are investigating the details of the incident, including the alleged abduction and transportation of the victim to the murder scene.

In Palau, the search for remains on Peleliu Island, a fierce battleground during World War II, has yielded the discovery of two sets of remains. The organization conducting the investigation, commissioned by the government, believes that there may be a mass burial site for over 1,000 Japanese soldiers. They will continue their efforts to identify and honor the fallen.

Moving on to weather-related news, the Akita City Fire Department has revealed that during the heavy rainfall in July last year, they received over 600 emergency calls. However, only 16.5% of the reported incidents resulted in actual dispatches due to the overwhelming number of calls received.

Lastly, a group involved in a scam on a part-time job website has been apprehended. The group operated a fraudulent website that promised compensation for providing life advice. They deceived women who registered on the site into sending them money. To evade investigation, the group established over 50 paper companies and opened numerous corporate bank accounts. The Tokyo Metropolitan Police believe this was an attempt to avoid scrutiny by investigative agencies.

That's all for today's news. Thank you for listening to Japan Daily News. Stay tuned for more updates tomorrow. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be partly cloudy with a high of 28°C and a low of 22°C. There is a 0% chance of rain and a UV index of 7.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
