---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-02-19 08:47:32 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-02-19.mp3
summary: "Unseasonably Warm Weather Raises Concerns of Avalanches and Flooding / Train Timetables Being Consolidated and Moved Online, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for February 19th, 2024."
duration: "208"
length: "03:28"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "8"
weather_sapporo_description: "Partly Cloudy "
weather_sapporo_image: "unknown.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "16"
weather_tokyo_description: "Light drizzle"
weather_tokyo_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "17"
weather_nagoya_description: "Light drizzle"
weather_nagoya_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "16"
weather_osaka_description: "Overcast "
weather_osaka_image: "unknown.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "17"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Light rain shower"
weather_fukuoka_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "24"
weather_naha_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_naha_image: "unknown.png"

proverb_id: "17"
proverb_ja: "犬も歩けば棒に当たる"
proverb_hiragana: "いぬもあるけばぼうにあたる"
proverb_en: "When you try to do something, you're likely to encounter trouble; or you might encounter unexpected fortune while you're at it."
proverb_lit: "Even a dog, when it walks, gets hit with a stick."

currency_usd: "150.4"
currency_gbp: "189.0"
currency_eur: "161.8"
currency_cad: "111.5"
currency_aud: "98.0"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240219/k10014363091000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240219/k10014362961000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240219/k10014363111000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240219/k10014363131000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240218/k10014363031000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240218/k10014363001000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240218/k10014362991000.html"

news_story_title1: "全国的に季節外れの暖かさに 雪崩や雪どけに注意を"
news_story_title2: "駅の「時刻表」 集約やウェブサイトへの案内の動き広がる"
news_story_title3: "能登半島地震7週間 奥能登 復旧の人手や作業時間の確保 課題に"
news_story_title4: "【石川 給水情報】輪島・珠洲などで実施（19日予定）"
news_story_title5: "イノシシ 駅近くで自転車とぶつかるなど 茨城 栃木で2人軽傷"
news_story_title6: "北九州市 産廃処理施設で火災 消火活動中 けが人の情報なし"
news_story_title7: "誇大ネット広告で不適切な債務整理に サポート団体立ち上げへ"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on February 19th, 2024. Today's news brings us stories about unseasonably warm weather, changes to train timetables, the ongoing recovery efforts after the Noto Peninsula earthquake, water supply support in Ishikawa, encounters with wild boars, a fire at a waste disposal facility, and the launch of a support organization for victims of misleading debt relief advertisements.

First, let's talk about the weather. The entire country is experiencing unseasonably warm temperatures today, which could potentially lead to avalanches and flooding in areas with heavy snowfall. It is important to exercise caution and be aware of the risks associated with snowmelt and avalanches. On the other hand, there is a chance of rain developing in western Japan, which could bring thunderstorms, strong winds, and heavy rainfall in localized areas.

In other news, train companies are making changes to the display of timetables at stations. With the widespread use of smartphones and the need to reduce costs, some railway companies are reducing the number of physical timetables and instead providing information through websites. This move aims to streamline operations and provide passengers with convenient access to up-to-date train schedules.

Turning to the ongoing recovery efforts in the aftermath of the Noto Peninsula earthquake, it has been seven weeks since the earthquake with a maximum intensity of magnitude 7 struck. In the hard-hit Okunoto region of Ishikawa Prefecture, where infrastructure such as water supply systems suffered significant damage, one of the challenges faced is ensuring an adequate number of workers and sufficient work hours for the recovery and debris removal tasks.

Moving on to Ishikawa Prefecture, there is information about water supply support scheduled for today in the cities of Wajima and Suzu. This support is aimed at assisting residents who have been affected by water supply disruptions.

In wildlife news, there have been reports of encounters with wild boars in Ibaraki and Tochigi Prefectures. On the morning of the 18th, two people sustained minor injuries after colliding with wild boars in separate incidents in the cities of Koga in Ibaraki and Nogi in Tochigi. Local police, in collaboration with local hunting associations, are strengthening patrols in the area and advising residents to avoid approaching wild boars if spotted.

Next, a fire broke out at an industrial waste disposal facility in the Wakamatsu Ward of Kitakyushu City, Fukuoka Prefecture. Firefighting operations are currently underway to extinguish the fire, which is believed to have originated from burning scrap metal on the premises. At this time, there are no reports of injuries.

Lastly, a preparatory meeting was held on the 17th for the launch of an organization to address the issue of misleading debt relief advertisements. These advertisements, often found online, make exaggerated claims such as 'guaranteed reduction of debt,' leading vulnerable individuals with multiple debts to inappropriate debt relief measures and causing financial harm. The organization, led by lawyers, aims to provide support and solutions for those affected by these misleading advertisements. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, there will be patchy rain nearby with a high of 16°C and a low of 14°C.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
