---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-08-22 08:47:44 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-08-22.mp3
summary: "Fukushima Fuel Recovery Begins; Typhoon 10 Develops Near Japan, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for August 22nd, 2024."
duration: "167"
length: "02:47"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "24"
weather_sapporo_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_sapporo_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "28"
weather_tokyo_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_tokyo_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "33"
weather_nagoya_description: "Cloudy"
weather_nagoya_image: "cloudy2.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "35"
weather_osaka_description: "Sunny"
weather_osaka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "34"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_fukuoka_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "30"
weather_naha_description: "Sunny"
weather_naha_image: "sunny.png"

proverb_id: "115"
proverb_ja: "柳の下のどじょう"
proverb_hiragana: "やなぎのしたのどじょう"
proverb_en: "Success may not occur in the same way again."
proverb_lit: "Loach under the willow tree."

currency_usd: "146.0"
currency_gbp: "190.1"
currency_eur: "162.3"
currency_cad: "107.3"
currency_aud: "98.3"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240822/k10014555411000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240822/k10014555651000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240822/k10014555541000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240822/k10014555641000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240822/k10014555531000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240821/k10014555451000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240821/k10014555431000.html"

news_story_title1: "福島第一原発 核燃料デブリ試験的な取り出し 準備作業を開始"
news_story_title2: "東京モノレール 運転再開"
news_story_title3: "きょうも西日本で危険な暑さ予想 熱中症対策の徹底を"
news_story_title4: "台風10号発生 日本列島に向かって進む見込み 今後の情報に注意"
news_story_title5: "教員の給与上乗せ 月給の4％から13％に引き上げる案 文科省"
news_story_title6: "阪大病院 抗がん剤を入院患者2人に過剰投与 システムに不具合"
news_story_title7: "福岡 大牟田 複数職員が性的虐待の病院 身体的や心理的虐待も"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on August 22nd, 2024. In a significant development, Tokyo Electric Power Company has announced the start of preparatory work for the experimental removal of melted nuclear fuel debris from Reactor 2 at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant. This operation commenced early this morning, marking the first attempt at debris removal since the accident over 13 years ago. The plan involves inserting a thin pipe-like device into the containment vessel to extract a few grams of debris, with the entire process expected to take at least a week.

Meanwhile, the Tokyo Monorail has resumed operations after a delay caused by overnight maintenance work between Showajima and Seibi-jo stations. Services were halted since the first train but were back up and running around 7:15 AM.

On the weather front, western Japan is bracing for dangerously high temperatures today, with regions from Kyushu to Hokuriku expecting to see temperatures soar above 35 degrees Celsius. Authorities are urging residents to take necessary precautions against heatstroke as this extreme heat continues.

Additionally, Typhoon No. 10 has formed off the southern coast of Japan and is expected to move slowly northwest, reaching the vicinity of the Ogasawara Islands by the 25th, before heading towards the Japanese archipelago. Residents are advised to stay updated on the latest typhoon information.

In education news, the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology has proposed an increase in the additional salary for teachers from the current 4% to 13% of their monthly salary. This recommendation comes as part of ongoing discussions aimed at improving the treatment of educators, particularly concerning overtime compensation.

In healthcare, Osaka University Hospital has reported a serious incident involving the over-administration of chemotherapy drugs to two hospitalized patients due to a malfunction in the medication calculation system. The hospital disclosed that one patient has suffered neurological complications, leading to difficulties in walking. Apologies have been issued to the affected patients and their families.

Lastly, a disturbing case of abuse has emerged from a hospital in Omuta, Fukuoka Prefecture, where multiple male staff members have been found guilty of repeatedly sexually abusing patients with disabilities. Investigations have revealed that the abuse extended to physical and psychological mistreatment, including hitting patients and using intimidation tactics. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, expect a warm day with temperatures around 28 degrees Celsius, light rain showers likely, and a chance of overcast skies.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
