---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-02-12 09:26:42 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-02-12.mp3
summary: "Unstable Weather Predicted in Japan | Nagoya Mayor Investigates Bribery, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for February 12th, 2024."
duration: "179"
length: "02:59"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "1"
weather_sapporo_description: "Sunny"
weather_sapporo_image: "sunny.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "10"
weather_tokyo_description: "Sunny"
weather_tokyo_image: "sunny.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "11"
weather_nagoya_description: "Sunny"
weather_nagoya_image: "sunny.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "11"
weather_osaka_description: "Partly Cloudy "
weather_osaka_image: "unknown.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "11"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Sunny"
weather_fukuoka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "17"
weather_naha_description: "Sunny"
weather_naha_image: "sunny.png"

proverb_id: "107"
proverb_ja: "身から出た錆"
proverb_hiragana: "みからでたさび"
proverb_en: "Suffering due to one's own actions"
proverb_lit: "Rust comes from oneself."

currency_usd: "149.5"
currency_gbp: "188.3"
currency_eur: "161.0"
currency_cad: "111.1"
currency_aud: "97.3"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240211/k10014355231000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240212/k10014355561000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240212/k10014355551000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240212/k10014355481000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240212/k10014355021000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240212/k10014355311000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240211/k10014355171000.html"

news_story_title1: "【ライブカメラ映像】西～東日本 大気不安定"
news_story_title2: "関東 大気不安定 東京23区積雪のおそれなくなるも路面凍結注意"
news_story_title3: "名古屋市教委が教員団体から金品 河村市長“調査進める考え”"
news_story_title4: "能登半島地震から6週間 今もなお2万人余の厳しい避難生活続く"
news_story_title5: "老朽化した浄化槽の取り替え 環境省に“基準明確に”と勧告"
news_story_title6: "将棋の棋士たちがオンラインで被災地支援のチャリティイベント"
news_story_title7: "富山 高岡 住民で被害状況など語り合う “今後の防災対策へ”"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on February 12th, 2024. Today, we have some important news stories from Japan.

First, the weather in Japan is expected to be very unstable over the next few days. Due to the influence of cold air in the upper atmosphere, there is a possibility of severe thunderstorms, tornadoes, hail, and heavy rain. The Japan Meteorological Agency is urging people to be cautious and pay attention to these extreme weather conditions. While there is no longer a risk of snowfall in Tokyo's 23 wards, there is a possibility of snowfall in the inland areas of Kanto in the morning, so please be careful of icy road conditions.

In other news, the Nagoya City Board of Education has been found to have received money from a teachers' organization that recommends teachers to be appointed as principals in city schools. The mayor of Nagoya, Mr. Kawamura, expressed shock at this revelation and has decided to establish a team, including external members, to conduct an investigation into this matter.

Moving on, it has been six weeks since the Noto Peninsula earthquake, and more than 20,000 people are still living in difficult evacuation conditions. These people have sought refuge in evacuation centers, relatives' homes, or have been living in their cars, enduring a prolonged and challenging evacuation life.

In environmental news, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications has advised the Ministry of the Environment to clearly define the criteria for replacing aging septic tanks. Some septic tanks used for treating domestic wastewater and releasing it into rivers have become outdated and pose problems in terms of environmental and hygiene concerns. The Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications is urging the Ministry of the Environment to determine the presence of such issues and provide clear guidelines for the replacement of these septic tanks.

On a more positive note, a charity event to support the Noto Peninsula earthquake-affected areas was held online by professional shogi players. The players and female shogi players participated in a talk show, expressing their thoughts and support for the affected areas.

Lastly, residents of Takaoka City in Toyama Prefecture, who have experienced liquefaction and other damages due to the Noto Peninsula earthquake, held a meeting on the 11th to share their experiences and discuss future disaster prevention measures. They shared their individual experiences of the damages they faced during the evacuation and discussed how to incorporate these experiences into future disaster preparedness strategies.

That's all for today's news from Japan Daily News. Thank you for listening! And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be partly cloudy with a high of 10°C and a low of 3°C. There is a chance of light sleet showers and light snow throughout the day. The average temperature will be 7°C.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
