---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-09-07 09:33:32 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-09-07.mp3
summary: "Increased Support Needs for Sexual Violence Victims and Arrests in Kamakura Robbery, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for September 7th, 2024."
duration: "178"
length: "02:58"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "23"
weather_sapporo_description: "Sunny"
weather_sapporo_image: "sunny.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "32"
weather_tokyo_description: "Sunny"
weather_tokyo_image: "sunny.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "33"
weather_nagoya_description: "Sunny"
weather_nagoya_image: "sunny.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "32"
weather_osaka_description: "Sunny"
weather_osaka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "31"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_fukuoka_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "30"
weather_naha_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_naha_image: "rainy1.png"

proverb_id: "99"
proverb_ja: "瓢箪から駒が出る"
proverb_hiragana: "ひょうたんからこまがでる"
proverb_en: "Unexpected outcomes can arise from unexpected places."
proverb_lit: "A horse appears from a gourd."

currency_usd: "143.1"
currency_gbp: "188.7"
currency_eur: "159.0"
currency_cad: "106.0"
currency_aud: "96.3"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240907/k10014575201000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240907/k10014575221000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240907/k10014574691000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240906/k10014574851000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240906/k10014575121000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240906/k10014574991000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240906/k10014574891000.html"

news_story_title1: "性暴力被害者支援団体 相談増え運営厳しい 予算確保を国に要望"
news_story_title2: "神奈川 鎌倉の質店強盗事件 逃走した容疑者ら逮捕"
news_story_title3: "職場で虐待受けた障害者 昨年度761人 前年度より105人増"
news_story_title4: "沖縄 尖閣沖 中国海警局の船4隻 約2時間航行し領海出る"
news_story_title5: "NIPPO 道路舗装材料問題 一部データ改ざん 問題件数を過小公表"
news_story_title6: "福井県知事 関電の核燃料搬出計画見直しで経産相に指導求める"
news_story_title7: "東広島「PFAS」問題 米軍“有害物質含む消火剤を過去に使用”"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on September 7th, 2024. In Osaka, eight organizations supporting victims of sexual violence have submitted a request to the government, highlighting their struggles to secure funding as the number of consultations rises. They are calling for immediate action to ensure that they can continue to provide essential services to those in need.

In Kanagawa Prefecture, police have arrested suspects involved in a robbery at a pawn shop in Kamakura. The incident occurred on September 3rd when two individuals entered the store. One suspect was apprehended on-site by an employee, while the other managed to flee but has now been captured by authorities.

Turning to workplace issues, a recent survey by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare revealed that the number of disabled individuals experiencing abuse at work has risen to 761 last year, an increase of 105 from the previous year. This rise is attributed to a recovery in economic activities post-COVID-19, which has led to more employment opportunities for disabled individuals, but unfortunately, it has also resulted in increased reports of mistreatment, including unpaid wages and verbal abuse.

In Okinawa, four ships from the Chinese Coast Guard entered Japanese territorial waters near the Senkaku Islands on September 6th. They remained in the area for approximately two hours before exiting. The Japan Coast Guard continues to monitor the situation and has issued warnings to prevent any further incursions.

The construction company NIPPO has come under scrutiny for its handling of road paving materials. On September 6th, the company revealed that some internal data had been falsified, leading to an underreporting of the number of problematic projects. The actual number of incidents has now increased to 53, including those involving a subsidiary.

In Fukui Prefecture, Governor Sugimoto met with the Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry on September 6th to discuss the need for a review of Kansai Electric Power's plans to transport spent nuclear fuel outside the prefecture. The governor is urging the government to enforce stricter guidance on the company to ensure a viable transportation plan is established swiftly.

Lastly, in Higashi-Hiroshima, concerns have been raised regarding the detection of harmful substances known as PFAS in local rivers. The U.S. military has acknowledged that it used older fire-fighting agents containing these compounds during inspections and training in the past, which has contributed to the contamination exceeding national provisional target levels. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, it's a hot day with a high of 32 degrees Celsius and a low of 28 degrees, mostly sunny with a UV index of 7, and the moon will rise at 8:50 AM.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
