---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-08-03 09:16:40 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-08-03.mp3
summary: "Magnitude 7 Earthquake Strikes Near Philippines, New Guidelines to Prevent Overwork Deaths, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for August 3rd, 2024."
duration: "178"
length: "02:58"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "30"
weather_sapporo_description: "Partly Cloudy"
weather_sapporo_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "33"
weather_tokyo_description: "Sunny"
weather_tokyo_image: "sunny.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "37"
weather_nagoya_description: "Sunny"
weather_nagoya_image: "sunny.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "35"
weather_osaka_description: "Sunny"
weather_osaka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "35"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Sunny"
weather_fukuoka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "31"
weather_naha_description: "Sunny"
weather_naha_image: "sunny.png"

proverb_id: "115"
proverb_ja: "柳の下のどじょう"
proverb_hiragana: "やなぎのしたのどじょう"
proverb_en: "Success may not occur in the same way again."
proverb_lit: "Loach under the willow tree."

currency_usd: "149.0"
currency_gbp: "189.8"
currency_eur: "161.3"
currency_cad: "107.3"
currency_aud: "97.1"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240803/k10014535481000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240803/k10014534821000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240803/k10014534891000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240803/k10014534881000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240803/k10014534901000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240803/k10014535151000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240803/k10014535241000.html"

news_story_title1: "フィリピン付近でM7地震 日本で潮位変化可能性も被害心配なし"
news_story_title2: "過労死防止 新たな大綱が閣議決定 時間外の上限規制徹底を明記"
news_story_title3: "保育施設や学童保育などでの重大事故 去年2772件で過去最多に"
news_story_title4: "「能動的サイバー防御」 重要インフラは報告義務を検討 政府"
news_story_title5: "危険な暑さ 東海など局地的に40度に迫るおそれも 熱中症対策を"
news_story_title6: "尾道 車で2人はねた疑い 容疑者“目に入った女性 殺そうと”"
news_story_title7: "「広瀬議員に指示された」と説明 公設秘書の夫"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on August 3rd, 2024. In our first news story, a magnitude 7.0 earthquake struck near the Philippines, causing concerns about possible changes in sea levels in Japan. According to the Japan Meteorological Agency, there may be some slight tidal changes along the Japanese coast, but there is no need to worry about any damage.

Moving on to our next story, new guidelines to prevent overwork deaths have been approved by the cabinet. These guidelines, which will apply to all industries starting this year, emphasize strict limits on overtime work. The aim is to prevent cases of death caused by excessive work hours.

In other news, the number of serious accidents in childcare facilities and after-school programs reached a record high of 2,772 incidents last year. According to the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, this includes cases of children's deaths and major injuries such as fractures. The government is expected to take measures to improve safety in these facilities.

Shifting gears, the Japanese government is considering making it mandatory for operators of critical infrastructure, such as electricity and railway companies, to report any cyber attacks they experience. This initiative, known as 'active cyber defense,' aims to quickly identify and respond to attacks in order to minimize the impact and protect essential services.

As summer temperatures continue to rise, there is a risk of dangerously hot weather in certain areas, such as the Tokai region, where temperatures could approach 40 degrees Celsius. It is important to take precautions against heatstroke, such as avoiding outdoor activities and staying hydrated.

In a disturbing incident, a 40-year-old suspect has been arrested on suspicion of attempted murder after allegedly hitting two women with his car in Onomichi, Hiroshima Prefecture. During police questioning, the suspect admitted that he intentionally targeted the women because he saw one of them and wanted to kill her. Prior to this incident, the suspect's wife was stabbed at their home and later died. The police are investigating the connection between the two incidents.

Lastly, in the ongoing investigation into the misuse of public funds by the office of former Liberal Democratic Party member Megumi Hirose, the husband of her former secretary has explained that he was instructed by Hirose to distribute his wife's salary. The Tokyo District Public Prosecutors' Office is focusing on unraveling the unclear flow of funds related to the secretary's salary. Hirose had previously denied any wrongdoing.

That's all for today's news. Thank you for listening to Japan Daily News. Stay tuned for more updates on the latest happenings in Japan. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be mostly sunny with a high of 33°C and a low of 27°C.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
