---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-04-19 08:27:46 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-04-19.mp3
summary: "Elderly Couple Injured in Hit-and-Run Incident in Shiga / Ikebukuro Hit-and-Run Accident Marks 5 Years, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for April 19th, 2024."
duration: "181"
length: "03:01"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "9"
weather_sapporo_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_sapporo_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "22"
weather_tokyo_description: "Sunny"
weather_tokyo_image: "sunny.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "23"
weather_nagoya_description: "Sunny"
weather_nagoya_image: "sunny.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "22"
weather_osaka_description: "Sunny"
weather_osaka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "22"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Sunny"
weather_fukuoka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "23"
weather_naha_description: "Sunny"
weather_naha_image: "sunny.png"

proverb_id: "29"
proverb_ja: "霞に千鳥"
proverb_hiragana: "かすみにちどり"
proverb_en: "Something unsuitable or out of place."
proverb_lit: "Plovers in the mist."

currency_usd: "154.3"
currency_gbp: "192.3"
currency_eur: "164.7"
currency_cad: "112.2"
currency_aud: "99.5"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240419/k10014426821000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240419/k10014426511000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240419/k10014426501000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240419/k10014426691000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240419/k10014426741000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240419/k10014426471000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240418/k10014426751000.html"

news_story_title1: "滋賀 路上で高齢夫婦死傷 学校職員をひき逃げの疑いで逮捕"
news_story_title2: "池袋暴走事故きょうで5年 遺族“交通事故なくなってほしい”"
news_story_title3: "身寄りのない高齢者の生活支援 自治体の負担明らかに 実態調査"
news_story_title4: "那須町遺体遺棄事件 被害者の男性 飲食店のトラブル複数証言"
news_story_title5: "パキスタン アフガニスタン各地で洪水 あわせて100人以上死亡"
news_story_title6: "秋田県全域 運用開始から最も早い「ツキノワグマ出没警報」"
news_story_title7: "長野自動車道 トラック事故でペットボトル散乱 通行止めは解除"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on April 19th, 2024. In today's news, a hit-and-run incident in Shiga has left an elderly couple injured. On the 16th of this month, an 80-year-old couple was found collapsed on the roadside in Omi-Hachiman City, Shiga Prefecture. The husband tragically passed away, while the wife sustained serious injuries. The police have arrested a 61-year-old female school staff member on suspicion of hitting the couple with her car and fleeing the scene. The suspect denies the allegations.

Moving on to our next story, it has been five years since the tragic hit-and-run accident in Ikebukuro, Tokyo, where a car driven by an elderly driver went out of control, resulting in the deaths of a mother and her young daughter. The bereaved family, who have been actively involved in accident prevention activities, expressed their desire for a future with no traffic accidents. They hope that not a single accident will occur.

In other news, a survey conducted by the government has revealed the extent of the burden on local municipalities and other organizations in providing support for elderly individuals with no family. While local governments, social welfare councils, and private businesses are all involved in supporting these individuals, the survey found that the needs are diverse and that the burden falls more heavily on the local municipalities due to the various non-official procedures.

Moving on to a disturbing case in Nasu Town, Tochigi Prefecture, where the burnt bodies of a man and a woman were discovered in a mountainous area on the 16th of this month. Multiple witnesses have come forward, stating that the male victim had been involved in disputes related to a restaurant he owned in Tokyo. The police have dispatched investigators to the restaurant and are focusing their investigation on the victim's social circle.

Shifting our focus to international news, both Pakistan and Afghanistan have been hit by devastating floods caused by continuous heavy rainfall. As a result, widespread flooding has occurred, leading to the tragic loss of over 100 lives.

Back in Japan, Akita Prefecture has issued a 'Bear Sighting Warning' for the entire prefecture. The number of bear sightings in the prefecture this month has significantly exceeded previous years, prompting the early issuance of this warning, the earliest since its implementation in 2016.

Lastly, in Nagano Prefecture, a truck accident on the Nagano Expressway resulted in a spillage of PET bottles, causing a road closure for five and a half hours near Shiojiri City. The police are currently investigating the cause of the accident. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be partly cloudy with a maximum temperature of 22°C and a minimum temperature of 15°C. There is a chance of light rain showers in the morning, but it will be mostly sunny in the afternoon. The UV index is 6, indicating high UV levels. Enjoy your day!  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
