---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-01-03 08:37:05 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-01-03.mp3
summary: "Earthquake Disrupts Transportation | Airport Accident Causes Flight Cancellations, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for January 3rd, 2024."
duration: "176"
length: "02:56"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "1"
weather_sapporo_description: "Patchy light snow"
weather_sapporo_image: "snowy.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "12"
weather_tokyo_description: "Partly cloudy"
weather_tokyo_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "11"
weather_nagoya_description: "Overcast"
weather_nagoya_image: "cloudy3.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "11"
weather_osaka_description: "Overcast"
weather_osaka_image: "cloudy3.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "10"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Light rain"
weather_fukuoka_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "20"
weather_naha_description: "Patchy rain possible"
weather_naha_image: "rainy1.png"

proverb_id: "64"
proverb_ja: "出る杭は打たれる"
proverb_hiragana: "でるくいはうたれる"
proverb_en: "Those who stand out get attacked or criticized."
proverb_lit: "The nail that sticks out gets hammered."

currency_usd: "142.0"
currency_gbp: "179.5"
currency_eur: "155.8"
currency_cad: "106.8"
currency_aud: "96.4"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240103/k10014307461000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240102/k10014307371000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240103/k10014307631000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240103/k10014307511000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240103/k10014307451000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240103/k10014307611000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240103/k10014307571000.html"

news_story_title1: "【地震 交通影響 3日】新幹線は通常どおり運転 空の便は欠航も"
news_story_title2: "【随時更新】羽田発着JAL ANA 計100便欠航へ 新幹線が臨時列車"
news_story_title3: "東海道新幹線 臨時列車を4本運行へ 羽田空港の事故を受けて"
news_story_title4: "羽田空港事故 管制官 “日航機に進入許可 海保機は手前まで”"
news_story_title5: "【ライフライン 3日】石川県内 約3万3900戸が停電"
news_story_title6: "石川 志賀町で震度4の地震 津波の心配なし"
news_story_title7: "輪島市に大雨警報 少しの雨でも土砂災害の危険度高まるおそれ"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on January 3rd, 2024. In the aftermath of a magnitude 7 earthquake in the Noto region of Ishikawa Prefecture on January 1st, the transportation system in the affected areas experienced disruptions. However, the Shinkansen bullet trains are operating as usual, providing relief for commuters. On the other hand, flights have been suspended and canceled due to the earthquake's impact, affecting both domestic and international routes. This includes approximately 100 flights departing from or arriving at Haneda Airport, with Japan Airlines and All Nippon Airways being the most affected. Passengers are advised to check the airlines' websites for the latest updates on flight operations.

Following the accident between a Japan Airlines aircraft and a Japan Coast Guard aircraft at Haneda Airport on January 2nd, the authorities have decided to operate additional trains on the Tokaido Shinkansen line to alleviate congestion caused by flight cancellations. Four extra trains will be running primarily in the morning from Tokyo Station to Shin-Osaka Station, providing additional travel options for passengers. It's important to note that these trains will have unreserved seating.

Regarding the accident itself, it has been revealed that the air traffic controller had given permission for the Japan Airlines aircraft to enter the runway before the collision occurred. However, instructions were given to the Japan Coast Guard aircraft to stop before reaching the runway. The Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism will commence a thorough investigation starting from January 3rd to determine the exact circumstances surrounding the accident.

In addition to the transportation disruptions, the earthquake also caused power outages in approximately 33,900 households in Ishikawa Prefecture. The local authorities are working to restore the lifelines and provide updates on the situation.

Furthermore, a magnitude 4 earthquake struck Shiga Town in Ishikawa Prefecture on January 3rd. Fortunately, there is no concern for a tsunami. The Japan Meteorological Agency has reported the earthquake's epicenter to be in the Noto region, with a depth of 10 kilometers and an estimated magnitude of 4.5. The intensity of the earthquake in Shiga Town reached a level 4 on the seismic scale.

Due to the unstable atmospheric conditions caused by the recent earthquake, heavy rain has been forecasted in Wajima City. Even a small amount of rain can increase the risk of landslides and other related disasters due to the weakened ground. The Meteorological Agency is urging residents to remain cautious and be prepared for potential hazards. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be partly cloudy with a maximum temperature of 12 degrees Celsius and a minimum temperature of 8 degrees Celsius.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
