---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-03-21 09:21:41 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-03-21.mp3
summary: "Earthquake Strikes Saitama and Tochigi, Dodger's Interpreter Fired over Illegal Gambling, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for March 21st, 2024."
duration: "191"
length: "03:11"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "-0"
weather_sapporo_description: "Overcast "
weather_sapporo_image: "unknown.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "9"
weather_tokyo_description: "Partly Cloudy "
weather_tokyo_image: "unknown.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "8"
weather_nagoya_description: "Overcast "
weather_nagoya_image: "unknown.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "8"
weather_osaka_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_osaka_image: "unknown.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "11"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Sunny"
weather_fukuoka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "17"
weather_naha_description: "Sunny"
weather_naha_image: "sunny.png"

proverb_id: "109"
proverb_ja: "昔取った杵柄"
proverb_hiragana: "むかしとったきねづか"
proverb_en: "Confident in skills learned in the past"
proverb_lit: "The handle of the pestle taken in the past."

currency_usd: "151.7"
currency_gbp: "192.7"
currency_eur: "164.5"
currency_cad: "111.6"
currency_aud: "98.9"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240321/k10014397601000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240321/k10014397571000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240321/k10014397561000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240321/k10014397531000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240321/k10014397511000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240321/k10014397181000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240321/k10014397381000.html"

news_story_title1: "【地震速報】埼玉と栃木で震度5弱 津波の心配なし"
news_story_title2: "ドジャース 大谷翔平の水原一平通訳を解雇 違法賭博に関与か"
news_story_title3: "JR高崎線と湘南新宿ライン 運転再開"
news_story_title4: "大阪 堺 住宅2棟が全焼する火事 2人死亡"
news_story_title5: "JR高崎線と湘南新宿ラインで一部運転見合わせ"
news_story_title6: "オスプレイ 駐屯地工事中止求める仮処分 きょう地裁判断 佐賀"
news_story_title7: "山口 下関沖 8人死亡のタンカー転覆事故 不明2人の捜索続く"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on March 21st, 2024. In breaking news, an earthquake with a magnitude of 5.3 struck southern Ibaraki Prefecture at around 9:08 am on the 21st. The quake, which was felt at a weak intensity of 5 in Tochigi and Saitama, did not pose a tsunami threat. The affected cities include Utsunomiya, Kasukabe, and Saitama City. Fortunately, there have been no reports of major damage or injuries.

In other news, the Los Angeles Dodgers have fired Shohei Ohtani's interpreter, Kazuhiro Mizuhara, over his alleged involvement in illegal gambling activities. This decision comes as a shock to the baseball community, as Mizuhara played a crucial role in facilitating communication between Ohtani and the team. The Dodgers have not yet released an official statement regarding the matter.

Moving on, the JR Takasaki Line and Shonan-Shinjuku Line have resumed operation after a temporary suspension due to a personal accident between Honjo and Jinbohara stations. Services were halted for several hours, causing inconvenience to commuters. We are glad to report that train services have now returned to normal.

Tragedy struck in Osaka's Sakai City early this morning as a fire engulfed two residential buildings, resulting in the loss of two lives. The police are currently investigating the cause of the fire and trying to identify the victims. Our thoughts go out to the affected families during this difficult time.

In transportation news, the JR Takasaki Line and Shonan-Shinjuku Line experienced partial disruptions due to a separate incident. A personal accident occurred between Honjo and Jinbohara stations, leading to the suspension of train services between Tokyo and Takasaki stations. Additionally, the Shonan-Shinjuku Line's direct services to the Takasaki Line were also affected. However, both lines have now resumed normal operations as of 7:20 am.

In legal news, the Saga District Court is set to make a ruling today on the temporary injunction filed by fishermen and others to halt the construction of a military base adjacent to Saga Airport. The base, intended for the deployment of the Ground Self-Defense Force's Osprey transport aircraft, has faced strong opposition from local residents and fishermen concerned about its potential impact on the environment and their livelihoods.

Lastly, the search continues for two missing individuals following a tanker capsizing incident off the coast of Shimonoseki, Yamaguchi Prefecture. The Korean-flagged chemical tanker, carrying 11 crew members, overturned near Rokuren Island on the 20th. Tragically, eight crew members have been confirmed dead, while the remaining two are still unaccounted for. The Japan Coast Guard is working tirelessly to locate and rescue the missing individuals.

That's all for today's news. Stay tuned for more updates from Japan Daily News. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be partly cloudy with a maximum temperature of 9°C and a minimum temperature of 4°C.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
