---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-08-18 09:05:36 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-08-18.mp3
summary: "Fukushima Evacuation Order Partially Lifted After 14 Years, and Dangerous Heatwave in Tokai and Kinki Regions, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for August 18th, 2024."
duration: "213"
length: "03:33"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "25"
weather_sapporo_description: "Sunny"
weather_sapporo_image: "sunny.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "33"
weather_tokyo_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_tokyo_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "37"
weather_nagoya_description: "Sunny"
weather_nagoya_image: "sunny.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "35"
weather_osaka_description: "Sunny"
weather_osaka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "34"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Partly Cloudy"
weather_fukuoka_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "30"
weather_naha_description: "Partly Cloudy"
weather_naha_image: "cloudy1.png"

proverb_id: "44"
proverb_ja: "三人寄れば文殊の知恵"
proverb_hiragana: "さんにんよればもんじゅのちえ"
proverb_en: "Collective wisdom surpasses individual wisdom."
proverb_lit: "When three people gather, wisdom akin to that of Manjusri (Bodhisattva of Wisdom) emerges."

currency_usd: "147.9"
currency_gbp: "191.2"
currency_eur: "162.6"
currency_cad: "107.8"
currency_aud: "98.1"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240818/k10014551801000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240818/k10014551741000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240818/k10014551831000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240818/k10014551791000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240817/k10014551771000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240817/k10014551101000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240817/k10014551441000.html"

news_story_title1: "福島 浪江 去年避難指示一部で解除の津島地区で14年ぶり盆踊り"
news_story_title2: "東海や近畿で危険な暑さ 31都府県に熱中症警戒アラート 対策を"
news_story_title3: "カムチャツカ半島沖でM7.0の地震 ロシア沿岸で津波のおそれ"
news_story_title4: "茨城 石岡 市内すべての避難指示を解除"
news_story_title5: "茨城 石岡 一部の避難指示を解除 金指地区と片野地区は継続"
news_story_title6: "18日も名古屋や岐阜など危険な暑さ 熱中症対策を 墓参りでも"
news_story_title7: "お盆休みUターンラッシュピーク 台風で予定変更の人たちの姿も"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on August 18th, 2024. In a small district of Namiemachi, Fukushima Prefecture, the evacuation order that was put in place following the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster was partially lifted last year. And after 14 years, the local residents were finally able to celebrate the Bon dance, a traditional summer festival. It was a long-awaited reunion with their hometown. Moving on to weather news, the Tokai and Kinki regions are experiencing dangerously high temperatures today. With clear skies and rising temperatures, it is expected to reach 38 degrees Celsius in these areas. Residents are advised to take precautions against heatstroke and avoid going outside or engaging in strenuous activities. In international news, a magnitude 7.0 earthquake struck off the coast of the Kamchatka Peninsula in Russia. The earthquake, which occurred at around 4:10 am Japan time, had a depth of 50 kilometers and is estimated to have a magnitude of 7.0. The NOAA has issued a tsunami warning for the Russian coast, stating that a tsunami of 30 centimeters to 1 meter may occur. Shifting back to local news, the evacuation orders in Ibaraki Prefecture's Iwaki City have been lifted. The orders were issued due to the risk of landslides caused by heavy rain. However, in the Kinshi and Katano districts, the evacuation orders remain in effect. The unstable atmospheric conditions in Ibaraki Prefecture led to localized heavy rain on the night of the 17th, prompting the issuance of evacuation orders for 10 districts. While the orders for most areas were lifted at 12:40 am on the 18th, the Kinshi district, consisting of 52 households and 158 people, and the Katano district, consisting of 152 households and 490 people, are still under evacuation orders. The Mito Regional Meteorological Observatory has called for caution against landslides, flooding in low-lying areas, and increased water levels and flooding in rivers during the early morning of the 18th. As for the weather, dangerous heatwave conditions continue in Nagoya, Gifu, and other areas. The temperatures are expected to exceed 39 degrees Celsius, particularly along the Pacific coast. It is crucial to avoid going outside or engaging in strenuous activities and to stay hydrated. Even when visiting graves during this period, it is important to be aware of the risk of heatstroke. Lastly, the peak of the Obon holiday rush is expected today, with a significant number of people returning from overseas trips and hometown visits. The effects of the typhoon have caused changes in travel plans for some individuals. As a result, Narita Airport and Tokyo Station are experiencing congestion. Additionally, at New Chitose Airport, there was a report of scissors being misplaced in an area where the transportation of dangerous goods is restricted. As a safety measure, security checks were temporarily suspended, resulting in delays and cancellations of departure flights. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be partly cloudy with a maximum temperature of 33°C and a minimum temperature of 26°C. There is a 100% chance of rain, with a total precipitation of 1.6mm. The UV index is 9, indicating very high UV levels. Enjoy your day!  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
