---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-04-09 08:26:55 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-04-09.mp3
summary: "Tokyo Bay Ferry Suspended Due to Strong Winds, Osaka House Fire Leaves Two Missing, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for April 9th, 2024."
duration: "202"
length: "03:22"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "2"
weather_sapporo_description: "Light freezing rain"
weather_sapporo_image: "sleet.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "18"
weather_tokyo_description: "Heavy rain"
weather_tokyo_image: "rainy3.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "16"
weather_nagoya_description: "Patchy light drizzle"
weather_nagoya_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "14"
weather_osaka_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_osaka_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "15"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_fukuoka_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "21"
weather_naha_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_naha_image: "rainy1.png"

proverb_id: "106"
proverb_ja: "ミイラ取りがミイラになる"
proverb_hiragana: "みいらとりがみいらになる"
proverb_en: "The one who goes to retrieve the mummy becomes a mummy"
proverb_lit: "The mummy retriever becomes a mummy."

currency_usd: "152.0"
currency_gbp: "191.6"
currency_eur: "164.5"
currency_cad: "111.7"
currency_aud: "100.1"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240409/k10014416381000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240409/k10014416361000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240409/k10014416091000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240409/k10014416331000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240409/k10014416271000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240409/k10014416301000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240409/k10014416041000.html"

news_story_title1: "東京湾フェリー 強風の影響で運航見合わせ"
news_story_title2: "大阪 松原で住宅火災 80代母親と50代長男の2人と連絡取れず"
news_story_title3: "千葉県東方沖や周辺 震度1以上地震収まりつつあるものの注意を"
news_story_title4: "東日本の太平洋側中心 昼前にかけ雷伴い非常に激しい雨 警戒を"
news_story_title5: "「犬のお巡りさん」に任命する委託式 警察署長が辞令交付 愛媛"
news_story_title6: "銚子電鉄 標識など取り外される被害 車両を撮影目的か"
news_story_title7: "“子どもに「rTMS」治療法の実施は不適切” 専門の学会が声明"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on April 9th, 2024. In today's news, the Tokyo Bay Ferry has suspended its operations due to the impact of strong winds. The ferry, which connects Kurahama in Yokosuka City, Kanagawa Prefecture, with Kanaya in Futtsu City, Chiba Prefecture, has decided to cancel the 8:20 am departure from Kurahama Port and the 9:20 am departure from Kanaya Port. The ferry company will assess the situation before resuming operations.

Moving on to other news, a house fire occurred in Matsubara City, Osaka, last night. The fire has left an elderly mother in her 80s and her middle-aged son in his 50s unaccounted for. The police and fire department are currently conducting an investigation to locate the missing individuals.

In Chiba Prefecture, the seismic activity in the eastern offshore area and its surroundings has been gradually subsiding, although caution is still advised. Since late February, the region centered around the eastern offshore area of Chiba Prefecture has experienced earthquakes with a seismic intensity of 1 or higher. The Japan Meteorological Agency warns that although the frequency of such earthquakes is decreasing, there is still a possibility of strong tremors occurring in the future.

Moving on to weather news, a wide area spanning from western Japan to northern Japan is experiencing unstable atmospheric conditions due to a front and low-pressure system. The Pacific side of eastern Japan is expected to receive extremely heavy rainfall accompanied by thunderstorms from mid-morning. The Japan Meteorological Agency is urging caution against landslides, flooding in low-lying areas, and rising river levels.

In other news, a commissioning ceremony was held in Toon City, Ehime Prefecture, where pet dogs and their owners were appointed as 'dog police officers' to participate in community watch activities while walking. The aim of this initiative is to enhance community safety and promote responsible pet ownership.

Meanwhile, the Choshi Electric Railway in Choshi City, Chiba Prefecture, has reported incidents of malicious acts where signs and other equipment along the railway tracks were removed. The railway company believes these acts were carried out with the intention of capturing photos or videos of the trains. The incident has been reported to the police for further investigation.

Lastly, a specialist medical society has released a statement regarding the use of a treatment called 'rTMS,' which involves stimulating the brain using magnetic fields, on children. The society expressed concern that despite the treatment being approved for patients with depression aged 18 and above, some medical institutions have been administering it to children with developmental disorders, claiming its effectiveness. The society emphasizes that the efficacy and safety of rTMS treatment on children have not been sufficiently verified and deems its implementation on children inappropriate. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, there will be patchy rain nearby with a high of 18°C and a low of 11°C. The average temperature will be 15°C. It will be mostly cloudy with a 87% chance of overcast. There is a 100% chance of rain. The humidity will be 90%.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
