---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-08-15 08:39:11 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-08-15.mp3
summary: "Power Outage Affects Over 240,000 Homes in Osaka and Moriguchi / Typhoon 7 Approaching Kanto and Tohoku, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for August 15th, 2024."
duration: "194"
length: "03:14"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "26"
weather_sapporo_description: "Sunny"
weather_sapporo_image: "sunny.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "35"
weather_tokyo_description: "Partly Cloudy"
weather_tokyo_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "36"
weather_nagoya_description: "Partly Cloudy"
weather_nagoya_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "37"
weather_osaka_description: "Sunny"
weather_osaka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "34"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_fukuoka_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "30"
weather_naha_description: "Cloudy"
weather_naha_image: "cloudy2.png"

proverb_id: "107"
proverb_ja: "身から出た錆"
proverb_hiragana: "みからでたさび"
proverb_en: "Suffering due to one's own actions"
proverb_lit: "Rust comes from oneself."

currency_usd: "147.1"
currency_gbp: "188.7"
currency_eur: "162.1"
currency_cad: "107.2"
currency_aud: "97.4"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240815/k10014549391000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240815/k10014549401000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240815/k10014549411000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240815/k10014549261000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240815/k10014549301000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240815/k10014549231000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240815/k10014549311000.html"

news_story_title1: "大阪市などで一時最大で24万戸余り停電 列車の運転見合わせも"
news_story_title2: "【気象予報士解説】台風7号 予想進路 今後の見通しは"
news_story_title3: "東北自動車道で車2台の衝突事故 少なくとも子ども2人けが 栃木"
news_story_title4: "東海道新幹線は16日 東京～名古屋 上下線 終日運転取りやめへ"
news_story_title5: "【台風7号 最新情報】16日にかけ関東や東北に強い勢力で接近か"
news_story_title6: "終戦から79年 戦没者を追悼し平和祈念する催し全国各地で"
news_story_title7: "西日本中心に危険な暑さ 大分 日田では39度予想 熱中症対策を"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on August 15th, 2024. In today's news, a power outage affected over 240,000 homes in Osaka and Moriguchi. The outage occurred early in the morning and reached a peak of over 240,000 households without power. As of 8 a.m., around 8,000 homes were still experiencing power outages. Kansai Electric Power Distribution is investigating the cause of the outage.

Moving on to our next story, Typhoon 7 is expected to approach Kanto and Tohoku. The typhoon has been developing and moving northward, with a potential approach to the Kanto and Tohoku regions on the 16th and 17th of August, Saturday. There is a risk of intense winds, which could cause partial house collapses in the Izu Islands. Additionally, severe weather conditions, including strong winds, high waves, and potential landslides, are expected in Kanto and Tohoku. Please exercise caution and remain vigilant.

Next, we have a report of a collision involving two cars on the Tohoku Expressway in Tochigi. According to the fire department, the accident occurred around 6:30 a.m. on the downline of the Tohoku Expressway in Nasu-Shiobara City, Tochigi Prefecture. At least two children have been injured in the accident, but the extent of their injuries is currently unknown. There was a report of one of the cars driving in the wrong direction, and the police are investigating the details of the situation. As a result of the accident, the downline between the Nishinasuno-Shiobara Interchange and the Kuroiso-Itamuro Interchange on the Tohoku Expressway is closed.

Moving on, the Tokaido Shinkansen will suspend its operations between Tokyo and Nagoya on the 16th of August. This decision comes as Typhoon 7 is expected to approach the Kanto region. The entire Tokyo-Nagoya route of the Tokaido Shinkansen will be suspended for the entire day.

Returning to Typhoon 7, we have the latest information. The typhoon continues to develop and move northward, with a potential approach to Kanto and Tohoku on the 16th and 17th of August. There is a risk of intense winds in the Izu Islands, which could cause partial house collapses. Additionally, severe weather conditions, including strong winds, high waves, and potential landslides, are expected in Kanto and Tohoku. Please exercise caution and remain vigilant.

In other news, today marks the 79th anniversary of the end of World War II. Various events are being held across the country to commemorate the approximately 3.1 million war dead and pray for peace.

Lastly, Western Japan is experiencing dangerously hot temperatures, with Oita and Hita expecting temperatures of 39 degrees Celsius. Please take thorough measures to prevent heatstroke, especially in areas experiencing extreme heat.

That's all for today's news. Thank you for listening to Japan Daily News. Stay tuned for more updates. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be sunny with a maximum temperature of 31°C and a minimum temperature of 28°C.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
