---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-02-29 09:01:47 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-02-29.mp3
summary: "Israel-Hamas Negotiations Remain Uncertain, Heavy Rain and Snow Expected in Kanto Region, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for February 29th, 2024."
duration: "207"
length: "03:27"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "-0"
weather_sapporo_description: "Light snow showers"
weather_sapporo_image: "snowy.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "11"
weather_tokyo_description: "Overcast "
weather_tokyo_image: "unknown.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "13"
weather_nagoya_description: "Partly Cloudy "
weather_nagoya_image: "unknown.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "13"
weather_osaka_description: "Partly Cloudy "
weather_osaka_image: "unknown.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "8"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Light rain"
weather_fukuoka_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "23"
weather_naha_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_naha_image: "unknown.png"

proverb_id: "117"
proverb_ja: "楽あれば苦あり"
proverb_hiragana: "らくあればくあり"
proverb_en: "Life has its ups and downs."
proverb_lit: "If there is pleasure, there is pain."

currency_usd: "150.6"
currency_gbp: "190.5"
currency_eur: "162.9"
currency_cad: "110.9"
currency_aud: "97.8"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240229/k10014374091000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240229/k10014374011000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240229/k10014374171000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240229/k10014374161000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240229/k10014374001000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240229/k10014374021000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240229/k10014374101000.html"

news_story_title1: "【詳細29日】イスラエルとハマスの交渉 合意は依然不透明"
news_story_title2: "関東甲信 29日夕方から雨や雪 1日は山沿い中心に大雪のおそれ"
news_story_title3: "新京成線 運転を再開"
news_story_title4: "新京成線 新鎌ヶ谷～京成津田沼間 上下線で運転見合わせ"
news_story_title5: "“再審制度のあり方 法改正含め検討” 超党派の議員連盟発足へ"
news_story_title6: "能登半島地震 必要な支援と課題は？首長発言から【2月28日】"
news_story_title7: "新潟 長岡 商業施設で3人切りつけ逮捕の高校生 少年院送致決定"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on February 29th, 2024. In our top news stories today, the negotiations between Israel and Hamas continue to be unclear. The Gaza Strip, where Israeli attacks have been ongoing, has seen the death toll reach nearly 30,000. The United Nations has highlighted that over 570,000 people, a quarter of the population, are facing a crisis situation and are on the brink of starvation. The UN is urging for an immediate ceasefire to address this dire situation.

Moving on to our next story, the Kanto region is expected to experience heavy rain and snow starting this evening. The low-pressure system developing along the southern coast of Honshu will bring precipitation to the Kanto and Koshin regions. Tomorrow, March 1st, is expected to see heavy snowfall in the mountainous areas. The Japan Meteorological Agency is advising caution due to the potential impact on transportation, such as snow accumulation and icy road conditions.

In other news, the New Keisei Line has resumed operations after being suspended due to a personal injury incident. The train service between Shin-Kamagaya Station and Keisei Tsudanuma Station was temporarily halted but has now resumed as of 6:45 am.

Shifting our focus back to the New Keisei Line, there was a disruption in service between Shin-Kamagaya Station and Keisei Tsudanuma Station in both directions due to a personal injury incident. The train service has been suspended since 5:33 am.

In political news, a bipartisan group of lawmakers has formed a parliamentary league to discuss the reform of the retrial system, including legislation. This initiative aims to expedite the relief for victims wrongfully convicted, as cases like the one involving Iwao Hakamada, who spent over 40 years in prison before his retrial was granted, have highlighted the prolonged nature of the current judicial process. The parliamentary league will begin examining the reform of the retrial system and its implementation.

Turning to the Noto Peninsula earthquake, which occurred almost two months ago, the heads of the affected municipalities participated in the 'Disaster Response Headquarters Meeting' held by Ishikawa Prefecture. They provided updates on the current situation in the affected areas, future prospects, and identified the challenges they are facing. They also appealed for necessary support from the government and other organizations. We have compiled some of the key statements made by the heads of the affected municipalities during the meeting, presented in the order they were given.

Lastly, in a criminal case, a high school student in Niigata's Nagaoka City has been arrested for a knife attack in a commercial facility in September 2023. The 18-year-old at the time assaulted three individuals, including customers and employees, with a knife. The Nagaoka branch of the Niigata Family Court has determined that the severity of the juvenile's actions necessitates correctional education to deepen their sense of responsibility and has decided to send them to a juvenile correctional facility. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be partly cloudy with a maximum temperature of 11°C and a minimum temperature of 6°C. There is a 33% chance of overcast skies and no chance of rain or snow. The humidity will be 38% and the UV index is 4. Enjoy your day!  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
