---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-04-07 14:03:06 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-04-07.mp3
summary: "Police Launch 'Joint Investigation Team' to Strengthen Fraud Crackdown, and Transportation Safety Commission Begins Investigation into Fatal Crossing Accident, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for April 7th, 2024."
duration: "188"
length: "03:08"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "14"
weather_sapporo_description: "Sunny"
weather_sapporo_image: "unknown.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "16"
weather_tokyo_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_tokyo_image: "unknown.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "22"
weather_nagoya_description: "Sunny"
weather_nagoya_image: "unknown.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "22"
weather_osaka_description: "Sunny"
weather_osaka_image: "unknown.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "21"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Sunny"
weather_fukuoka_image: "unknown.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "22"
weather_naha_description: "Light rain shower"
weather_naha_image: "unknown.png"

proverb_id: "113"
proverb_ja: "焼け石に水"
proverb_hiragana: "やけいしにみず"
proverb_en: "Slight efforts or assistance are hardly effective."
proverb_lit: "Water on a hot stone."

currency_usd: "151.3"
currency_gbp: "191.2"
currency_eur: "164.2"
currency_cad: "111.6"
currency_aud: "99.7"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240407/k10014414761000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240407/k10014414731000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240407/k10014414781000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240407/k10014414771000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240407/k10014414711000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240407/k10014414751000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240407/k10014414741000.html"

news_story_title1: "警察 特殊詐欺捜査で全国に「連合捜査班」立ち上げ 摘発強化へ"
news_story_title2: "女児死亡の踏切事故 国の運輸安全委が調査開始 群馬 高崎"
news_story_title3: "東京 多摩 桜まつりで能登半島地震の被災地を支援"
news_story_title4: "七尾湾「能登かき」を食べて被災地応援するイベント 金沢"
news_story_title5: "武見厚労相“地域ごとに医師数割り当ても検討” 日曜討論"
news_story_title6: "台湾 東部沖地震 雨で捜索難航 トルコの救助隊が現地入り"
news_story_title7: "埼玉県警の警察官 女子高校生のスカートの中 盗撮の疑いで逮捕"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on April 7th, 2024. In an effort to enhance the investigation of special fraud cases, the police in Japan have implemented a new system called the 'Joint Investigation Team' starting from April. This new system aims to shift from the 'local jurisdiction principle', where the police in the area where the crime occurred handle the case from the initial response to the arrest of the culprit. Instead, the police headquarters will establish joint investigation teams in major cities to combat fraud groups operating across multiple regions, utilizing the comprehensive capabilities of the police force to strengthen crackdowns.

Following a tragic accident in Takasaki, Gunma Prefecture, where a 9-year-old girl was fatally hit by a train at a railway crossing, the National Transportation Safety Commission has initiated a detailed investigation. The accident has prompted concerns about railway safety, and the commission will thoroughly examine the circumstances surrounding the incident to prevent similar accidents in the future.

In other news, the annual 'Cherry Blossom Festival' is in full swing in Tama, Tokyo, attracting numerous visitors. This year, the festival includes booths dedicated to supporting the areas affected by the Noto Peninsula earthquake. People can enjoy the beautiful cherry blossoms while contributing to the recovery efforts of the disaster-stricken region.

Meanwhile, in Kanazawa, an event is being held to support the disaster-stricken areas by promoting the consumption of 'Noto oysters,' a specialty of Nanao Bay in Ishikawa Prefecture, which suffered significant damage during the Noto Peninsula earthquake. The event aims to boost morale and provide economic support to the affected region.

During a discussion on NHK's 'Sunday Debate,' Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare, Takami, expressed his thoughts on the issue of maldistribution of doctors, particularly the shortage of doctors in rural areas. He suggested considering the allocation of doctors based on regional needs as a potential solution to address the imbalance in healthcare resources.

In Taiwan, the search and rescue efforts continue following the earthquake off the eastern coast. As of now, 13 fatalities have been confirmed, and the search for individuals who remain unaccounted for is ongoing. However, heavy rain in the affected area has made the search operation challenging. In a significant development, a rescue team from Turkey has arrived at the scene, becoming the first foreign rescue team to provide assistance.

Lastly, a police officer from Saitama Prefectural Police has been arrested on suspicion of secretly filming under a high school girl's skirt using a smartphone at a train station in Yoshikawa City last month. The incident highlights the importance of ensuring the safety and security of individuals, particularly in public spaces. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be mostly cloudy with light rain showers. The temperature will range from 12 to 16 degrees Celsius.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
