---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-06-02 08:29:13 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-06-02.mp3
summary: "Yokohama City to Provide Full Subsidies for Automatic Television Power-On Devices During Disasters; Unstable Weather Expected in Eastern and Northern Japan, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for June 2nd, 2024."
duration: "189"
length: "03:09"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "16"
weather_sapporo_description: "Sunny"
weather_sapporo_image: "sunny.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "22"
weather_tokyo_description: "Light rain shower"
weather_tokyo_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "21"
weather_nagoya_description: "Light rain shower"
weather_nagoya_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "22"
weather_osaka_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_osaka_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "22"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Sunny"
weather_fukuoka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "22"
weather_naha_description: "Moderate rain"
weather_naha_image: "rainy2.png"

proverb_id: "104"
proverb_ja: "負けるが勝ち"
proverb_hiragana: "まけるがかち"
proverb_en: "Sometimes conceding is a win."
proverb_lit: "Losing is winning."

currency_usd: "157.2"
currency_gbp: "199.6"
currency_eur: "170.6"
currency_cad: "115.2"
currency_aud: "104.5"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240602/k10014468521000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240602/k10014468441000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240602/k10014468711000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240602/k10014468631000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240601/k10014468661000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240601/k10014468301000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240601/k10014468621000.html"

news_story_title1: "災害時に “テレビを自動でオン” 横浜市が機器設置を全額補助"
news_story_title2: "東～北日本 あすにかけ大気不安定 突風や激しい雨に注意"
news_story_title3: "WHO「パンデミック条約」意見の隔たり埋まらず交渉期間延長"
news_story_title4: "能登半島地震発生から5か月 北京で石川の魅力紹介する催し"
news_story_title5: "新潟 長岡 高齢者から1000万円だまし取ったか 16歳高校生逮捕"
news_story_title6: "百万石行列「能登を応援」横断幕も 2500人の行列が金沢城へ"
news_story_title7: "“職業ドライバー”約1割が緑内障などと診断 国交省が眼科健診"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on June 2nd, 2024. In an effort to enhance information dissemination during disasters, Yokohama City has launched a program to fully subsidize the installation costs of dedicated devices that automatically turn on televisions to convey information when emergency earthquake alerts are issued. This initiative aims to strengthen communication during emergencies and ensure that important information reaches residents promptly.

The atmosphere in eastern and northern Japan has become highly unstable due to the influence of cold air in the upper atmosphere and low-pressure systems. The Japan Meteorological Agency has warned residents to be cautious of severe gusts, such as lightning and tornadoes, as well as locally heavy rainfall. This unstable weather condition is expected to continue until the 3rd of June.

Negotiations surrounding the World Health Organization's 'Pandemic Treaty' aimed at enhancing global infectious disease response have been extended for up to one year. Despite reaching the final day of discussions at the WHO's annual assembly, countries have failed to bridge the gap in opinions, leading to the decision to extend the negotiation period. The treaty aims to strengthen international cooperation and coordination in responding to pandemics and future health emergencies.

To support the recovery efforts in the aftermath of the Noto Peninsula earthquake that occurred five months ago, an event was held in Beijing, China's capital, to introduce the attractions of Ishikawa Prefecture, including traditional crafts and local cuisine. The event aimed to raise awareness of the region's charm and provide support to the affected areas.

A 16-year-old high school student from Saitama City has been arrested for allegedly deceiving an elderly woman in her 80s from Niigata City and stealing 10 million yen in cash. The arrest was made following an investigation into the incident, which occurred at the end of May. The police are continuing their efforts to uncover the details of the case.

The main event of the Kanazawa Hyakumangoku Festival, which recreates the entrance of the feudal lord Maeda Toshiie into Kanazawa Castle during the Warring States period, took place with the display of a banner supporting the victims of the Noto Peninsula earthquake. The procession, consisting of 2,500 participants, showcased the rich history and cultural heritage of the region.

A recent eye examination conducted by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism on approximately 2,300 bus and truck drivers revealed that around 10% of them were diagnosed with glaucoma or suspected glaucoma, conditions that can affect their visual field. While none of the drivers were found to have advanced stages of the disease that would render them unfit to drive, the examining physicians emphasized the importance of regular eye check-ups as abnormalities in the visual field are often overlooked. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, there will be patchy rain nearby with temperatures ranging from 18 to 22 degrees Celsius.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
