---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-01-02 09:18:06 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-01-02.mp3
summary: "Rescue Efforts Continue in Ishikawa City | Earthquake Causes Disruption in Transportation and Utilities, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for January 2nd, 2024."
duration: "207"
length: "03:27"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "-1"
weather_sapporo_description: "Light snow"
weather_sapporo_image: "snowy.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "9"
weather_tokyo_description: "Overcast"
weather_tokyo_image: "cloudy3.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "12"
weather_nagoya_description: "Sunny"
weather_nagoya_image: "sunny.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "11"
weather_osaka_description: "Sunny"
weather_osaka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "13"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Sunny"
weather_fukuoka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "19"
weather_naha_description: "Sunny"
weather_naha_image: "sunny.png"

proverb_id: "71"
proverb_ja: "三尺下がって師の影を踏まず"
proverb_hiragana: "さんじゃくさがってしのかげをふまず"
proverb_en: "When following a master, a disciple should not tread upon their shadow, showing respect and maintaining a distance."
proverb_lit: "Walking three shaku behind, do not step on the teacher's shadow."

currency_usd: "141.4"
currency_gbp: "179.9"
currency_eur: "156.2"
currency_cad: "106.7"
currency_aud: "96.2"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240102/k10014306761000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240102/k10014306351000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240102/k10014306751000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240102/k10014306401000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240102/k10014306571000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240102/k10014306721000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240102/k10014306701000.html"

news_story_title1: "石川 輪島 倒壊ビルから3人救助 1人意識なし 自衛隊が救助継続"
news_story_title2: "【ライフライン 2日】断水・停電など各地の被害は"
news_story_title3: "【交通影響 2日】新幹線や空の便 2日も乱れ続く 道路の寸断も"
news_story_title4: "【速報中 被害状況】石川県内で6人が死亡 各地でけが人も"
news_story_title5: "【空撮映像】石川 輪島市中心部 大規模火災や倒壊 100棟超延焼"
news_story_title6: "【空撮映像】珠洲市でも多くの建物が倒壊 港では複数の船 転覆"
news_story_title7: "石川 能登地方で震度4（7:13）"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on January 2nd, 2024. In Ishikawa City, the Self-Defense Forces are continuing their rescue efforts to save people trapped in a collapsed building. According to the Ministry of Defense, members of the Air Self-Defense Force stationed at the Wajima Base are working to rescue those who were left behind in the building after it collapsed due to the strong tremors of a magnitude 6.6 earthquake. The earthquake, which occurred on January 1st, also caused significant damage to the region's infrastructure.

The earthquake in Ishikawa Prefecture's Noto region, with a magnitude of 7.0, has resulted in widespread disruption to utilities. Many areas are experiencing water and power outages. The impact on the region's lifelines, such as water supply and electricity, continues to be felt. Updates on the current situation in each area are being provided as the situation develops.

The transportation network in the affected areas has also been severely affected by the earthquake. The Hokuriku Shinkansen, express trains, and flights have been suspended or canceled for the second day due to the impact of the earthquake. In addition, roads have been damaged, leading to disruptions in traffic. The transportation situation in each area is being updated as new information becomes available.

Tragically, the earthquake has resulted in six fatalities in Ishikawa Prefecture, with reports of injuries in several other prefectures. As of 5:00 am on January 2nd, the Ishikawa Prefectural Police Headquarters confirmed the deaths of six individuals ranging in age from their teens to their 90s. Multiple injuries have been reported in Ishikawa, Niigata, Fukui, Toyama, and Gifu prefectures. There is also information indicating that residents who were unable to escape collapsed buildings are still trapped. The extent of the damage and injuries in each area is being updated as information becomes available.

In Ishikawa City's central district of Kawamachi, a large-scale fire broke out around 6:00 pm on January 1st, and firefighting efforts have been ongoing for over 14 hours. The fire, which started near the famous Asaichi Street, has resulted in the destruction of over 100 buildings, including shops and residences. Firefighters continue to battle the blaze and assess the extent of the human impact. Aerial footage captured by NHK's helicopter at around 6:50 am shows flames and thick smoke rising from multiple locations in the area. The buildings are charred, and some have completely collapsed.

In Suzu City, also located in Ishikawa Prefecture, numerous buildings have collapsed, and multiple ships have capsized in the port. Following the earthquake, a fire broke out in a residential area, but the fire department has nearly extinguished it as of 3:00 am on January 2nd. Details about the fire are still unknown, and the police and fire department are gathering information about any injuries.

In other news, a magnitude 4 earthquake was recorded in Ishikawa Prefecture at 7:13 am on January 2nd. Please stay tuned for further updates on the situation. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be partly cloudy with a high of 9°C and a low of 7°C. There is a 45% chance of overcast skies. Enjoy your day!  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
