---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-04-17 09:24:09 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-04-17.mp3
summary: "Unstable Weather in Eastern and Northern Japan | New Employee Resignations, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for April 17th, 2024."
duration: "199"
length: "03:19"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "14"
weather_sapporo_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_sapporo_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "23"
weather_tokyo_description: "Sunny"
weather_tokyo_image: "sunny.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "25"
weather_nagoya_description: "Sunny"
weather_nagoya_image: "sunny.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "24"
weather_osaka_description: "Sunny"
weather_osaka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "21"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Sunny"
weather_fukuoka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "26"
weather_naha_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_naha_image: "rainy1.png"

proverb_id: "19"
proverb_ja: "井の中の蛙大海を知らず"
proverb_hiragana: "いのなかのかわずたいかいをしらず"
proverb_en: "Limited perspective due to lack of exposure to the world."
proverb_lit: "A frog in a well does not know the great sea."

currency_usd: "154.8"
currency_gbp: "192.7"
currency_eur: "164.5"
currency_cad: "112.2"
currency_aud: "99.2"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240417/k10014424081000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240417/k10014424101000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240417/k10014422301000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240417/k10014424021000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240417/k10014423511000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240416/k10014423461000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240416/k10014423891000.html"

news_story_title1: "東日本や北日本 大気不安定で激しい雨 落雷や竜巻に注意"
news_story_title2: "気象庁 伊豆諸島北部に「竜巻注意情報」発表"
news_story_title3: "「きのう退職届出してきた」入社したばかりの新入社員がなぜ？"
news_story_title4: "栃木 那須町 河川敷に2人の焼けた遺体 近くに携行缶か"
news_story_title5: "熱中症警戒アラート 4月24日から 特別警戒アラートも運用開始"
news_story_title6: "栃木 那須町 河川敷で2人の焼けた遺体 1人は55歳男性と確認"
news_story_title7: "3歳の女の子死亡 高層マンション20-30階の部屋から転落か 広島"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on April 17th, 2024. In today's news, we have two significant stories to discuss.

First, the weather in eastern and northern Japan has become extremely unstable due to the influence of cold air in the upper atmosphere. As a result, a wide area has experienced heavy rainfall, with particularly intense rain occurring in Shizuoka Prefecture this morning. The unstable weather conditions are expected to continue into the late evening of the 17th. The Japan Meteorological Agency has issued a warning to be cautious of localized heavy rain, lightning, and even tornadoes.

Moving on to our second story, the Japan Meteorological Agency has issued a 'tornado alert' for the northern part of the Izu Islands. There is a risk of sudden gusts of wind, including tornadoes, in this area. If there are sudden weather changes, thunderstorms, or hail, please ensure your safety by seeking shelter in sturdy buildings.

Next, we turn to some surprising news from the corporate world. Despite just starting their new job, several new employees have already submitted their resignation letters. Social media platforms are buzzing with comments such as 'I submitted my resignation letter yesterday' and 'I'm going to look for a new job starting tomorrow.' This phenomenon raises questions about what might be happening in various industries facing a shortage of manpower.

In another news story, a disturbing incident has occurred in Nasu Town, Tochigi Prefecture. Two charred bodies were discovered in a mountainous area on the 16th. Witnesses reported seeing a container resembling a portable stove near the bodies. According to investigators, the victims had adhesive tape-like material wrapped around their faces and their hands were bound. The police are currently investigating the connection between the container and the incident, as well as gathering more details about the situation.

Shifting gears, let's talk about an upcoming alert related to heatstroke prevention. The Japan Meteorological Agency and the Ministry of the Environment have announced that they will start issuing a 'heatstroke caution alert' from April 24th. This alert is released when there is a predicted risk of health damage due to heatstroke. Additionally, this year, a new 'special heatstroke caution alert' will be implemented to address the unprecedented widespread heat expected. The authorities are intensifying their efforts to raise awareness and promote precautions.

Lastly, a tragic incident has occurred in Hiroshima. A 3-year-old girl was found unconscious within the premises of a high-rise apartment building in the Chuo Ward. Unfortunately, she was later pronounced dead. The police suspect that the girl accidentally fell from a room on the 20th to 30th floor of the building. They are currently investigating the circumstances surrounding the incident.

That wraps up today's news from Japan Daily News. Stay tuned for more updates and stay safe. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be partly cloudy with a maximum temperature of 23°C and a minimum temperature of 17°C. There is a 49% chance of overcast skies and a 0% chance of rain. The UV index is 5, indicating moderate sun exposure. Enjoy your day!  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
