---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-07-18 09:04:37 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-07-18.mp3
summary: "Rice Harvest Begins in Miyazaki as Summer Tourism Season in Matsuyama Faces Concerns, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for July 18th, 2024."
duration: "176"
length: "02:56"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "29"
weather_sapporo_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_sapporo_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "32"
weather_tokyo_description: "Partly Cloudy"
weather_tokyo_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "34"
weather_nagoya_description: "Partly Cloudy"
weather_nagoya_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "34"
weather_osaka_description: "Sunny"
weather_osaka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "32"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_fukuoka_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "31"
weather_naha_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_naha_image: "rainy1.png"

proverb_id: "123"
proverb_ja: "恋は盲目"
proverb_hiragana: "こいはもうもく"
proverb_en: "Love is blind."
proverb_lit: "Love is blind."

currency_usd: "156.5"
currency_gbp: "204.1"
currency_eur: "171.2"
currency_cad: "114.5"
currency_aud: "105.6"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240718/k10014513931000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240718/k10014514531000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240718/k10014514511000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240718/k10014514411000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240718/k10014514621000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240717/k10014514501000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240717/k10014514491000.html"

news_story_title1: "宮崎 串間 早場米の稲刈りが始まる"
news_story_title2: "松山 土砂崩れ 夏の観光シーズンに向けて影響を懸念する声"
news_story_title3: "京アニ放火事件から5年 現場のスタジオ跡地では追悼式"
news_story_title4: "自民 堀井学衆院議員 違法な寄付 香典を渡す相手や金額指示か"
news_story_title5: "さいたま 住宅全焼 この家の70代夫婦2人と連絡取れず"
news_story_title6: "海自「特定秘密」問題 防衛省再発防止検討委 対策急ぐ方針確認"
news_story_title7: "松山 土砂崩れ 大雨被害の修復工事まで1年近く 市が対応検証へ"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on July 18th, 2024. In Miyazaki City, the rice harvest has begun in the early rice-growing region of Kushima, keeping farmers busy with their work. Meanwhile, the impact of a landslide that resulted in three deaths on the mountain where Matsuyama Castle is located in Matsuyama City has led to the suspension of the castle and ropeway operations, raising concerns for the upcoming summer tourism season. Local souvenir shops and businesses in the area are worried about the potential impact.

Today marks the fifth anniversary of the tragic Kyoto Animation arson incident, where 36 employees lost their lives and 32 others were injured. A memorial service is being held at the site of the former studio, and the families of the victims express that their grief remains unchanged even after five years.

In political news, it has been revealed through interviews with relevant parties that Gaku Hori, a member of the Liberal Democratic Party, is suspected of repeatedly making illegal donations totaling several hundred thousand yen by giving condolence money through his secretary and family members to people in his electoral district. It is alleged that Hori instructed the recipients on who to give the condolence money to and the amount. The Tokyo District Public Prosecutors' Office's special investigation department is expected to intensify its investigation into the suspected violation of the Public Offices Election Act to uncover the truth.

A fire broke out in a wooden house in Saitama City's Kita Ward on the evening of the 17th, resulting in the complete destruction of the residence. The whereabouts of the elderly couple who lived in the house, both in their 70s, are currently unknown. The police and fire department are conducting efforts to confirm their safety, as there is a possibility that they were unable to escape.

In response to multiple violations regarding the handling of classified information related to national security on Maritime Self-Defense Force escort vessels, the Ministry of Defense held a committee meeting on the 17th to confirm its commitment to expedite measures to prevent recurrence.

Regarding the repair work for the damage caused by heavy rain that was confirmed near the summit of the mountain where Matsuyama Castle is located in Matsuyama City, it is expected to take nearly a year to complete. The city explained that permission from the Agency for Cultural Affairs was required due to it being a national historic site, but the agency stated that in the event of a disaster or emergency, prompt approval for construction is granted. The city plans to conduct a verification of its response at that time. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be partly cloudy with a high of 32°C and a low of 26°C. There is a 100% chance of rain. The UV index is 9, which means it is very high. Enjoy your day!  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
