---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-08-11 10:41:36 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-08-11.mp3
summary: "Two Men Missing After Being Swept Away at Ibaraki Beach; Earthquake Preparedness Course for Foreign Residents in Tokushima, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for August 11th, 2024."
duration: "197"
length: "03:17"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "29"
weather_sapporo_description: "Sunny"
weather_sapporo_image: "sunny.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "34"
weather_tokyo_description: "Sunny"
weather_tokyo_image: "sunny.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "37"
weather_nagoya_description: "Sunny"
weather_nagoya_image: "sunny.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "34"
weather_osaka_description: "Partly Cloudy"
weather_osaka_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "33"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Sunny"
weather_fukuoka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "31"
weather_naha_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_naha_image: "rainy1.png"

proverb_id: "124"
proverb_ja: "果報は寝て待て"
proverb_hiragana: "かほうはねてまて"
proverb_en: "Good things comes to those who wait"
proverb_lit: "Wait for good fortune by sleeping"

currency_usd: "146.8"
currency_gbp: "186.9"
currency_eur: "160.3"
currency_cad: "106.8"
currency_aud: "96.5"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240811/k10014546071000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240811/k10014545761000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240811/k10014545691000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240811/k10014546061000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240811/k10014545701000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240811/k10014545681000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240810/k10014545771000.html"

news_story_title1: "茨城 鹿嶋 海水浴場で20代の男性2人流され行方を捜索"
news_story_title2: "徳島 阿波おどり前に県内に住む外国人対象 災害の備え学ぶ講座"
news_story_title3: "南海トラフ地震臨時情報 巨大地震に注意 引き続き備え確認を"
news_story_title4: "【地震情報】宮崎市で震度3 津波の心配なし"
news_story_title5: "きょうも危険な暑さ 関東甲信で39度予想も 熱中症の対策徹底を"
news_story_title6: "台風5号 あす東北に上陸のおそれ 雨や風が強まる前に備えを"
news_story_title7: "新潟 村上 海水浴場で遊んでいた7歳男児死亡"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on August 11th, 2024. In our top stories today, two men in their 20s are missing after being swept away at a beach in Ibaraki City. The incident occurred this morning, and authorities are currently conducting a search operation. The beach had been closed for swimming since yesterday due to the high waves caused by Typhoon No. 5. Our thoughts are with the families of the missing men during this difficult time.

Moving on to our next story, as the 'Nankai Trough Earthquake Temporary Information' has been issued, a special course on disaster preparedness was held for foreign residents in central Tokushima City. The course aimed to provide information and educate participants about the necessary preparations for earthquakes and other disasters. This initiative is especially important given the current heightened possibility of a large-scale earthquake in the Nankai Trough region.

In other news, the Japan Meteorological Agency continues to remind the public to remain vigilant and prepared for a potential major earthquake in the Nankai Trough region. Following the magnitude 7.1 earthquake with a weak intensity of 6 that was observed in Miyazaki Prefecture on August 8th, the agency has issued temporary information to raise awareness about the increased likelihood of a large-scale earthquake. Although no significant changes in strain have been observed, monitoring efforts are ongoing.

On the seismic front, an earthquake with a magnitude of 3 was recorded in Miyazaki City this morning at around 7:42 am. However, there is no concern about a tsunami resulting from this earthquake.

As we move on to weather news, today is expected to be another scorching day in Japan. The Kanto-Koshin region, Tokai, and Kyushu are forecasted to experience dangerous heat, with temperatures reaching up to 39 degrees Celsius. We urge everyone to take precautions and prioritize measures to prevent heatstroke.

Looking ahead, Typhoon No. 5, currently located in the eastern waters of Japan, continues its northward trajectory. It is expected to approach the Tohoku region on the 12th, potentially making landfall. The Japan Meteorological Agency has issued warnings for heavy rain, surpassing the average rainfall for the entire month of August, particularly on the Pacific side of Tohoku. Residents are advised to be on high alert for landslides, flooding in low-lying areas, river water levels, and gusty winds. Please ensure your safety before the rain and wind intensify.

Lastly, a tragic incident occurred at a beach in Murakami City, Niigata Prefecture. A 7-year-old boy who was playing at the beach went missing yesterday afternoon. The Japan Coast Guard divers discovered the boy's body underwater near the shore. Unfortunately, he was pronounced dead upon arrival at the hospital. Our deepest condolences go out to the family and loved ones of the young boy.

That's all for today's news. Thank you for joining us on Japan Daily News. Stay safe and have a great day! And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be mostly sunny with a high of 34°C and a low of 28°C. There is a slight chance of light rain showers in the morning. The UV index is 8, indicating very high sun exposure. Enjoy your day!  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
