---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-07-29 09:10:58 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-07-29.mp3
summary: "Chiba Science University Considers Transition to Public University, and Record-Breaking Heavy Rainfall Causes Fatalities, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for July 29th, 2024."
duration: "220"
length: "03:40"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "22"
weather_sapporo_description: "Light rain"
weather_sapporo_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "35"
weather_tokyo_description: "Sunny"
weather_tokyo_image: "sunny.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "36"
weather_nagoya_description: "Sunny"
weather_nagoya_image: "sunny.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "35"
weather_osaka_description: "Sunny"
weather_osaka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "33"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Sunny"
weather_fukuoka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "30"
weather_naha_description: "Sunny"
weather_naha_image: "sunny.png"

proverb_id: "4"
proverb_ja: "頭隠して尻隠さず"
proverb_hiragana: "あたまかくしてしりかくさず"
proverb_en: "Even if you think you have concealed a misdeed or fault perfectly, some part of it will reveal itself."
proverb_lit: "Hide the head, the buttocks are exposed."

currency_usd: "154.6"
currency_gbp: "198.8"
currency_eur: "167.8"
currency_cad: "111.9"
currency_aud: "101.3"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240729/k10014527781000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240729/k10014527631000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240729/k10014527831000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240729/k10014527871000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240729/k10014527721000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240729/k10014527851000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240728/k10014527751000.html"

news_story_title1: "千葉科学大学の公立移行 “学部 学科の削減など必要”検討委"
news_story_title2: "【被害・影響】山形と秋田で記録的大雨 3人が死亡（29日）"
news_story_title3: "関東甲信や東海で40度予想 命に関わる危険な暑さ 対策徹底を"
news_story_title4: "東北や北海道中心に再び大雨のおそれ 土砂災害など厳重警戒"
news_story_title5: "福岡 柳川 民間ヘリコプター墜落 運輸安全委が原因調査へ"
news_story_title6: "静岡 菊川 家族3人死亡 孫が切りつけ殺害か 警察が行方を捜査"
news_story_title7: "茨城 八千代町のグラウンドにヘリコプターが不時着 けが人なし"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on July 29th, 2024. In our top news stories today, Chiba Science University is considering transitioning to a public university, and record-breaking heavy rainfall in Yamagata and Akita has resulted in multiple fatalities.

First, let's talk about Chiba Science University. The university, located in Choshi City, Chiba Prefecture, has expressed its desire to transition to a public university. A committee consisting of experts and other stakeholders has compiled a draft proposal for the city, which includes the need for streamlining such as reducing departments and courses if the transition were to happen.

Moving on to our next news story, we have the devastating impact of heavy rainfall in Yamagata and Akita. The two prefectures experienced unprecedented heavy rain, leading to the tragic loss of three lives. As of today, additional information is being gathered to provide a comprehensive overview of the situation.

Now, let's turn our attention to the weather. Eastern and western Japan are expected to see rising temperatures again today, with the Kanto-Koshinetsu and Tokai regions facing the dangerous heat of up to 40 degrees Celsius. It is crucial to take precautions against heatstroke, such as avoiding unnecessary outdoor activities and using air conditioning indoors without hesitation.

In related news, there is a renewed risk of heavy rain in the Tohoku and Hokkaido regions. The areas that were already affected by the recent heavy rainfall, including Yamagata and Akita, are expected to experience intensified rain and potentially more heavy downpours from tomorrow. Residents in these regions should remain vigilant as even a small amount of rain can increase the risk of disasters such as landslides, flooding, and river overflow due to weakened soil and damaged river embankments.

Shifting our focus to transportation news, a tragic helicopter accident occurred in Yukuhashi City, Fukuoka Prefecture. On the 28th, a private helicopter crashed into agricultural land, resulting in the deaths of two individuals. The company has reported that no abnormalities were found during the regular inspections and pre-flight checks conducted earlier this month. The National Transportation Safety Commission has dispatched aviation accident investigators to the site to determine the cause of the accident.

In another unfortunate incident, a family tragedy unfolded in Kikukawa City, Shizuoka Prefecture. On the 28th, an elderly couple and their daughter were found lying in a pool of blood in their home. All three victims were pronounced dead. Based on the information from the emergency call and other factors, the police suspect that their 20s grandson, who was present at the residence at the time, attacked and killed them with a knife. The police are currently conducting a search to locate the grandson.

Lastly, we have a helicopter incident in Yachiyo Town, Ibaraki Prefecture. On the afternoon of the 28th, a helicopter flying over Ibaraki made an emergency landing on a ground in Yachiyo Town. Fortunately, the two occupants of the helicopter did not sustain any injuries. The police are investigating the incident further, focusing on the reported issue with the helicopter's propeller.

That wraps up today's news from Japan Daily News. Stay tuned for more updates tomorrow. Thank you for listening! And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be mostly sunny with a high of 35°C and a low of 30°C. There is a slight chance of rain in the afternoon.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
