---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-07-30 08:49:14 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-07-30.mp3
summary: "Job Openings in Japan Continue to Decline | Heavy Rainfall Raises Disaster Risk, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for July 30th, 2024."
duration: "191"
length: "03:11"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "22"
weather_sapporo_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_sapporo_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "36"
weather_tokyo_description: "Partly Cloudy"
weather_tokyo_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "34"
weather_nagoya_description: "Partly Cloudy"
weather_nagoya_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "33"
weather_osaka_description: "Partly Cloudy"
weather_osaka_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "32"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Sunny"
weather_fukuoka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "30"
weather_naha_description: "Sunny"
weather_naha_image: "sunny.png"

proverb_id: "123"
proverb_ja: "恋は盲目"
proverb_hiragana: "こいはもうもく"
proverb_en: "Love is blind."
proverb_lit: "Love is blind."

currency_usd: "153.8"
currency_gbp: "197.2"
currency_eur: "166.4"
currency_cad: "111.1"
currency_aud: "100.7"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240730/k10014528561000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240730/k10014529011000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240730/k10014529241000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240730/k10014529081000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240730/k10014529021000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240730/k10014529151000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240730/k10014528821000.html"

news_story_title1: "6月の有効求人倍率 全国平均1.23倍 前月比は3か月連続低下"
news_story_title2: "東北や北陸 激しい雨のおそれ 山形 秋田 少雨でも災害の危険性"
news_story_title3: "静岡 菊川 家族3人死亡 孫が刃物で執ように切りつけたか"
news_story_title4: "福岡 ヘリコプター墜落事故 機体の後部は飛行中に分離か"
news_story_title5: "東海 四国で38度予想 30日も東日本と西日本を中心に気温上昇"
news_story_title6: "千葉 PFAS検出問題 海上自衛隊下総航空基地に立ち入り調査"
news_story_title7: "東京 八王子 スーパー3人殺害事件から29年 情報提供を呼びかけ"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on July 30th, 2024. In today's news, the job openings ratio in Japan has declined for the third consecutive month. According to the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, the job openings ratio for the previous month averaged 1.23 nationwide, a decrease of 0.01 points compared to the previous month. The manufacturing and construction industries are facing difficulties in hiring due to the impact of the weakening yen and rising material costs.

Moving on to weather news, the Tohoku and Hokuriku regions are at risk of heavy rainfall. The influence of the seasonal rain front may result in localized heavy rain in these areas. Regions such as Yamagata and Akita, which have already experienced record-breaking heavy rain, are particularly vulnerable to disasters. Even a small amount of rain can increase the risk of landslides, flooding, and river flooding. Please continue to exercise caution and remain vigilant.

In other news, a tragic incident occurred in Kikugawa, Shizuoka, where three family members were killed. The bodies of the elderly couple and their daughter showed multiple cuts caused by a knife. The police suspect that their 27-year-old grandson attacked them with a knife and have launched a nationwide manhunt for him on suspicion of murder.

Turning to aviation news, the Transportation Safety Commission has revealed that a private helicopter that crashed in Yanagawa, Fukuoka, resulting in the deaths of two people, likely experienced separation of the rear part of the aircraft during flight. The wreckage of the helicopter was found under circumstances indicating that the rear part of the aircraft detached while it was flying.

As for the weather forecast, temperatures are expected to rise in eastern and western Japan, with the Tokai and Shikoku regions reaching dangerous levels of 38 degrees Celsius. It is essential to avoid unnecessary outings and take precautions against heatstroke, even when indoors. Remember to use air conditioning without hesitation.

Moving on to environmental news, investigations have been conducted at the Maritime Self-Defense Force Shimofusa Air Base in Chiba Prefecture regarding the detection of high concentrations of harmful organic fluorine compounds known as PFAS in waterways. The prefecture and other authorities are working to identify the cause of the contamination.

Lastly, it has been 29 years since the unsolved triple murder case at a supermarket in Hachioji, Tokyo. Three part-time employees, including a high school girl, were fatally shot. The Metropolitan Police Department continues to seek information from the public to help solve the case. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be partly cloudy with a maximum temperature of 36°C and a minimum temperature of 27°C. There is a chance of patchy light drizzle in the morning, followed by sunny skies in the afternoon. The UV index is 10, indicating very high UV levels. The average temperature for the day will be around 31°C.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
