---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-08-09 08:37:03 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-08-09.mp3
summary: "Nagasaki Commemorates 79th Anniversary of Atomic Bombing, Earthquake Warnings Issued, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for August 9th, 2024."
duration: "220"
length: "03:40"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "26"
weather_sapporo_description: "Light rain shower"
weather_sapporo_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "35"
weather_tokyo_description: "Partly Cloudy"
weather_tokyo_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "37"
weather_nagoya_description: "Sunny"
weather_nagoya_image: "sunny.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "36"
weather_osaka_description: "Sunny"
weather_osaka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "34"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Sunny"
weather_fukuoka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "31"
weather_naha_description: "Sunny"
weather_naha_image: "sunny.png"

proverb_id: "44"
proverb_ja: "三人寄れば文殊の知恵"
proverb_hiragana: "さんにんよればもんじゅのちえ"
proverb_en: "Collective wisdom surpasses individual wisdom."
proverb_lit: "When three people gather, wisdom akin to that of Manjusri (Bodhisattva of Wisdom) emerges."

currency_usd: "146.2"
currency_gbp: "185.5"
currency_eur: "159.7"
currency_cad: "106.4"
currency_aud: "95.8"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240809/k10014543181000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240808/k10014543031000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240809/k10014543131000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240808/k10014542951000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240808/k10014542241000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240809/k10014543101000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240808/k10014542291000.html"

news_story_title1: "長崎 原爆投下から79年 “最後の被爆地に”願い発信する一日に"
news_story_title2: "東海道新幹線など一部で遅れ 南海トラフ地震臨時情報の発表で"
news_story_title3: "きょうも危険な暑さ 西日本 東日本中心に激しい雨のおそれ"
news_story_title4: "各地の対応 避難 行政 原発は 南海トラフ地震臨時情報"
news_story_title5: "【被害】宮崎 鹿児島で9人けが 住宅被害も 最大震度6弱"
news_story_title6: "「巨大地震注意」政府 発生に備え態勢構築に万全期す"
news_story_title7: "「南海トラフ地震臨時情報」（巨大地震注意）とは？解説動画も"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on August 9th, 2024. Today, Nagasaki marks the 79th anniversary of the atomic bombing that took place on August 9th. As international tensions rise and the threat of nuclear weapons looms, Nagasaki aims to send a message as the 'last atomic-bombed city' to both domestic and international audiences. However, controversy surrounds the city's decision to exclude the Israeli ambassador from this year's peace memorial ceremony, leading to other G7 ambassadors, excluding Japan, to also reconsider their attendance.

In other news, following the announcement of the 'Southwest Offshore Earthquake Temporary Information' (warning for a major earthquake), transportation services have been affected, including delays on the Tokaido Shinkansen line. The temporary information was issued in response to the potential threat of a major earthquake in the Nankai Trough region.

As we continue to experience scorching temperatures in central and western Japan today, it is important to take precautions against the dangerous heat and prevent heatstroke. Additionally, due to the influence of warm and humid air, the atmosphere in western and eastern Japan is expected to become highly unstable, with the possibility of intense rain accompanied by thunderstorms, lightning, and gusty winds. Please remain cautious and stay safe.

Following the magnitude 7.1 earthquake with its epicenter in Hinata Bay that occurred yesterday evening, the Japan Meteorological Agency issued a 'Southwest Offshore Earthquake Temporary Information' (warning for a major earthquake) at 7:15 PM. The agency has emphasized the increased possibility of a large-scale earthquake in the Nankai Trough region and called for disaster preparedness measures in accordance with information from the government and local authorities. We will now provide updates on the responses and actions taken by various regions.

Yesterday, a significant earthquake with a magnitude of 7.1 and an intensity of lower 6 was observed in Miyazaki Prefecture. According to the Fire and Disaster Management Agency, as of 7:30 PM, a total of 9 people have been confirmed injured in Miyazaki and Kagoshima Prefectures due to falling objects and collapsing structures. Some residential areas have also been damaged. 

In response to the earthquake that caused an intensity of lower 6 in Miyazaki Prefecture, the government is prioritizing efforts for recovery and reconstruction. In addition, following the announcement of the 'temporary information' by the Japan Meteorological Agency, which warns of the possibility of a major earthquake, the government plans to work on raising awareness and preparedness among residents in the areas at risk of damage. The government also aims to strengthen administrative measures to ensure comprehensive readiness.

What is the 'Southwest Offshore Earthquake Temporary Information' (warning for a major earthquake)? Our reporter, Mr. Eisuke Shimakawa, from the Disaster Department, provides an explanation. This content was broadcasted on NHK News after 8 PM yesterday and is a 4-minute and 26-second video. Please note that it is not available as a data broadcast. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be partly cloudy with a maximum temperature of 35°C and a minimum temperature of 27°C. There is a chance of patchy rain nearby throughout the day. The average temperature will be around 30°C.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
