---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-01-06 09:39:15 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-01-06.mp3
summary: "Death Toll Rises in Ishikawa Prefecture Earthquake; North Korea Sends Condolences, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for January 6th, 2024."
duration: "183"
length: "03:03"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "1"
weather_sapporo_description: "Light snow showers"
weather_sapporo_image: "snowy.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "13"
weather_tokyo_description: "Sunny"
weather_tokyo_image: "sunny.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "11"
weather_nagoya_description: "Overcast"
weather_nagoya_image: "cloudy3.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "13"
weather_osaka_description: "Patchy rain possible"
weather_osaka_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "12"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Patchy rain possible"
weather_fukuoka_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "21"
weather_naha_description: "Sunny"
weather_naha_image: "sunny.png"

proverb_id: "15"
proverb_ja: "一難去ってまた一難"
proverb_hiragana: "いちなんさってまたいちなん"
proverb_en: "Out of the frying pan and into the fire."
proverb_lit: "One trouble leaves and another arrives."

currency_usd: "145.1"
currency_gbp: "183.8"
currency_eur: "158.5"
currency_cad: "108.6"
currency_aud: "97.1"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240106/k10014311561000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240106/k10014311511000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240106/k10014311481000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240106/k10014311551000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240106/k10014311501000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240106/k10014311261000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240106/k10014311441000.html"

news_story_title1: "石川県の死者98人に このうち輪島市で59人死亡 能登半島地震"
news_story_title2: "石川県能登地方で震度5強の地震 津波の心配なし M5.3"
news_story_title3: "【ライフライン 6日】断水や停電続く 給水支援の状況は"
news_story_title4: "北朝鮮キム総書記 岸田首相宛てに見舞いの電報 能登の地震受け"
news_story_title5: "【交通影響 6日】JR七尾線 のと鉄道 全面復旧めど立たず"
news_story_title6: "能登半島地震被災地で雨 地盤緩み少しの雨で災害おそれ 注意を"
news_story_title7: "羽田の管制業務“機体位置確認モニターの常時監視担当”新設へ"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on January 6th, 2024. In our top news today, the death toll in the Noto Peninsula earthquake in Ishikawa Prefecture has risen to 98, with 59 fatalities reported in the city of Wajima. According to authorities, the earthquake struck the region with a strong intensity of 5+ on the seismic scale, but fortunately, there is no threat of a tsunami. The town of Anamizu experienced the strongest shaking, registering a 5+ intensity, while Nanao City reported a 5- intensity. Minor tremors of 4 were felt in Himi City, Wajima City, Shiga Town, and Nakunoto Town. The Japan Meteorological Agency estimates the magnitude of the earthquake to be 5.3, with a depth of 10 kilometers. Similar earthquakes have been occurring in the Noto region and its surroundings since the evening of January 1st. The agency is urging residents to remain cautious as more tremors with a maximum intensity of 7 could occur within the next week.

Moving on to our next story, the aftermath of the earthquake continues to affect the lifeline services in the affected areas. Residents are still experiencing water shortages and power outages, causing inconvenience and disruption. The local authorities are providing updates on the situation, and efforts are being made to restore water supply and electricity as quickly as possible.

In international news, North Korean leader Kim Jong-un has sent a telegram of condolences to Prime Minister Kishida in response to the Noto Peninsula earthquake. The telegram was announced through the North Korean party newspaper, Rodong Sinmun, expressing sympathy and support for the victims of the disaster.

And in transportation news, the impact of the earthquake on the transportation system in Ishikawa Prefecture is significant. The JR Nanao Line and Noto Railway are still facing full restoration, causing inconvenience for commuters and travelers in the region.

In weather-related news, the earthquake-affected areas are currently experiencing rainfall. Residents are advised to be cautious as the ground may be unstable due to the seismic activity, increasing the risk of landslides. The Japan Meteorological Agency continues to warn of potential tremors with a maximum intensity of 7 in the region.

Lastly, in response to the recent aircraft collision and fire incident at Haneda Airport, the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism has implemented new measures to prevent runway incursions. Starting today, a dedicated monitor will be responsible for continuously monitoring the position of aircraft at Haneda Airport to ensure safety and prevent similar accidents.

That's all for today's news. Thank you for listening to Japan Daily News. Stay informed and stay safe. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be partly cloudy with a high of 13°C and a low of 8°C. There is a 0% chance of rain and a UV index of 3. Enjoy your day!  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
