---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-05-30 08:56:42 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-05-30.mp3
summary: "Taxi Driver Shot in Saitama and Japanese-Brazilian Community Affected by Massive Flooding, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for May 30th, 2024."
duration: "174"
length: "02:54"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "15"
weather_sapporo_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_sapporo_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "26"
weather_tokyo_description: "Sunny"
weather_tokyo_image: "sunny.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "26"
weather_nagoya_description: "Sunny"
weather_nagoya_image: "sunny.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "27"
weather_osaka_description: "Sunny"
weather_osaka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "25"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Sunny"
weather_fukuoka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "27"
weather_naha_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_naha_image: "rainy1.png"

proverb_id: "41"
proverb_ja: "この親にしてこの子あり"
proverb_hiragana: "このおやにしてこのこあり"
proverb_en: "A child's behaviour reflects its parents."
proverb_lit: "Like parent, like child."

currency_usd: "157.2"
currency_gbp: "200.4"
currency_eur: "170.6"
currency_cad: "115.1"
currency_aud: "104.3"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240530/k10014465391000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240530/k10014465431000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240530/k10014465231000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240530/k10014465041000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240530/k10014465221000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240530/k10014465491000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240530/k10014465131000.html"

news_story_title1: "タクシー運転手が腹を撃たれケガ 容疑者は逃走中 埼玉 川口"
news_story_title2: "ブラジル大規模洪水 日系人が多く暮らす地域でも影響が長期化"
news_story_title3: "ライドシェア タクシー会社以外への拡大の是非 調整へ 政府"
news_story_title4: "著名人なりすまし広告で投資勧誘“だまし取られた”相談が急増"
news_story_title5: "旧優生保護法下で不妊手術 今夏にも判決へ 除斥期間が焦点に"
news_story_title6: "北朝鮮の弾道ミサイル可能性あるもの発射 EEZ外に落下か"
news_story_title7: "クレジットカード悪用対策でカード会社に協力求める 警視庁"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on May 30th, 2024. In Saitama, a taxi driver was shot and injured by a man who demanded money and fled the scene. The police are investigating the incident as an attempted robbery and are urging residents in the area to be cautious. Meanwhile, in Brazil, the southern region has been experiencing prolonged flooding since the end of April. The flooding has not receded in many areas, including those where the Japanese-Brazilian community resides. The impact of the flooding has been long-lasting and continues to cause damage. Moving on to another news story, the Japanese government is currently discussing the expansion of ride-sharing services beyond taxi companies. There are differing opinions within the government on whether to allow non-taxi operators to participate. The government aims to establish a direction by June when the 'bold policy' is planned to be finalized. The topic of discussion will be further adjusted in the coming months. Next, there has been a significant increase in reports of investment scams where individuals are approached for investment opportunities through fake social media advertisements impersonating celebrities. The National Consumer Affairs Center has issued a warning regarding this issue, as the number of reported cases has increased by 9.6 times compared to the previous year. Shifting focus, a court hearing took place at the Supreme Court on a case involving individuals who were forcibly sterilized under the former Eugenic Protection Law due to disabilities. The plaintiffs shared their long-standing suffering, seeking compensation from the government. The court is expected to deliver its verdict this summer, with the focus on whether the plaintiffs who underwent the surgeries a long time ago have the right to seek compensation. Additionally, the Defense Ministry announced that a missile, possibly a ballistic missile, was launched by North Korea and fell outside Japan's Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ). The ministry continues to gather information and maintain surveillance. The Joint Chiefs of Staff of South Korea stated that North Korea fired over 10 projectiles, believed to be short-range ballistic missiles, towards the Sea of Japan at around 6:14 am. Lastly, the Tokyo Metropolitan Police Department held a briefing session for credit card companies, seeking their cooperation in preventing fraudulent activities such as scams using credit cards. They emphasized the importance of thorough screening during the contract process to prevent malicious businesses from installing payment terminals. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be partly cloudy with a high of 26°C and a low of 19°C. There is a 0% chance of rain and a UV index of 9.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
