---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-09-25 09:49:27 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-09-25.mp3
summary: "Record Rainfall in Noto Causes Fatalities and Search Efforts Continue; Family Reflects on Upcoming Verdict in Infamous Murder Case, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for September 25th, 2024."
duration: "177"
length: "02:57"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "18"
weather_sapporo_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_sapporo_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "22"
weather_tokyo_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_tokyo_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "28"
weather_nagoya_description: "Sunny"
weather_nagoya_image: "sunny.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "29"
weather_osaka_description: "Sunny"
weather_osaka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "27"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Light rain shower"
weather_fukuoka_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "28"
weather_naha_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_naha_image: "rainy1.png"

proverb_id: "135"
proverb_ja: "両手に花"
proverb_hiragana: "りょうてにはな"
proverb_en: "Enjoying two great things at the same time."
proverb_lit: "Flowers in both hands."

currency_usd: "143.9"
currency_gbp: "192.3"
currency_eur: "160.3"
currency_cad: "106.5"
currency_aud: "98.6"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240925/k10014591151000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240925/k10014590751000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240925/k10014591081000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240925/k10014590771000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240925/k10014591341000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240925/k10014591291000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240925/k10014590981000.html"

news_story_title1: "能登 記録的大雨 8人死亡 行方不明や安否不明の人の捜索続く"
news_story_title2: "袴田巌さんの再審 判決を前に事件の遺族が手記で心境明かす"
news_story_title3: "大阪・関西万博まで200日 記念硬貨 1万円と1000円デザイン発表"
news_story_title4: "「手足口病」1都6県で警報レベル上回る 手洗いなど感染予防を"
news_story_title5: "障害のある人たちの作品 体験型の展覧会 東京 港区"
news_story_title6: "石川大雨被害 復興携わる専門家「ゼロイチではない議論を」"
news_story_title7: "西九州新幹線開業から2年 車両基地で「かもめ」洗う催し 長崎"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on September 25th, 2024. In Noto, Ishikawa Prefecture, record rainfall has led to devastating consequences, with reports confirming eight fatalities and two individuals still missing. Authorities are also trying to reach five others whose whereabouts remain unknown, prompting ongoing search and rescue operations by police and firefighters.

In a separate but equally poignant story, the family of victims from a notorious murder case that occurred 58 years ago in Shizuoka Prefecture is reflecting on their emotions as a verdict in the retrial of Iwao Hakamada approaches. Hakamada, who was sentenced to death for the murder of four family members, awaits the Shizuoka District Court's decision on the 26th. A grandson of the deceased couple has shared his thoughts and feelings through a personal account, revealing the impact of this long-standing case on his family.

Switching gears, we are now just 200 days away from the opening of the Osaka-Kansai Expo, scheduled for next April. To commemorate the occasion, designs for a 10,000 yen gold coin and a 1,000 yen silver coin have been unveiled, adding excitement to the upcoming event.

Meanwhile, health officials are raising alarms about the rising cases of hand, foot, and mouth disease across Tokyo and six other prefectures. The infection, which primarily affects children and causes rashes on the hands and feet, has surpassed warning levels, prompting local governments to encourage preventive measures such as regular handwashing.

In the arts scene, an experiential exhibition showcasing handmade works by people with disabilities is currently being held in Minato, Tokyo. This unique event invites visitors to engage their senses while appreciating the creativity and talent of the artists involved.

On the topic of disaster recovery, experts are discussing the implications of the recent heavy rainfall in Noto, which has severely impacted areas still recovering from previous earthquakes. A specialist in urban planning emphasizes the need for community discussions that go beyond simple decisions about relocation. He suggests that even if communities are moved, it is vital to maintain connections and support networks at both the community and individual levels.

Lastly, Nagasaki Prefecture recently celebrated the two-year anniversary of the opening of the Nishi-Kyushu Shinkansen. To mark the occasion, an event was held at the train's maintenance base in Omura City, where selected participants had the unique opportunity to wash the train known as 'Kamome,' fostering a sense of community and pride in this modern transportation achievement. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, expect a temperature around 21 degrees Celsius with patchy rain and a chance of drizzle later in the evening.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
