---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-08-02 08:21:53 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-08-02.mp3
summary: "Tragic Incident in Kawasaki Claims Lives of Three, Heatwave Alert in 34 Prefectures, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for August 2nd, 2024."
duration: "209"
length: "03:29"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "29"
weather_sapporo_description: "Partly Cloudy"
weather_sapporo_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "34"
weather_tokyo_description: "Sunny"
weather_tokyo_image: "sunny.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "37"
weather_nagoya_description: "Sunny"
weather_nagoya_image: "sunny.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "35"
weather_osaka_description: "Sunny"
weather_osaka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "35"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Sunny"
weather_fukuoka_image: "sunny.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "31"
weather_naha_description: "Sunny"
weather_naha_image: "sunny.png"

proverb_id: "22"
proverb_ja: "海老で鯛を釣る"
proverb_hiragana: "えびでたいをつる"
proverb_en: "Gaining large profits with little investment."
proverb_lit: "Catching a sea bream with a shrimp."

currency_usd: "150.8"
currency_gbp: "193.1"
currency_eur: "162.6"
currency_cad: "109.1"
currency_aud: "98.6"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240802/k10014533651000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240802/k10014533271000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240802/k10014533211000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240802/k10014533161000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240801/k10014533091000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240801/k10014532701000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240801/k10014533111000.html"

news_story_title1: "川崎のマンション 4歳児と5歳児含む3人死亡 無理心中か"
news_story_title2: "34都府県に熱中症警戒アラート 近畿は40度に迫る危険な暑さに"
news_story_title3: "鹿児島県警 情報漏えい事件などの再発防止策 きょう公表へ"
news_story_title4: "日本最大級の人形劇の祭典 いいだ人形劇フェスタ 始まる 長野"
news_story_title5: "長岡空襲から79年 犠牲者を追悼し平和を祈る式典"
news_story_title6: "静岡 3人死亡事件 27歳の孫を祖母殺害の容疑で逮捕"
news_story_title7: "アルツハイマー病の新薬「ドナネマブ」承認へ 国内2例目"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on August 2nd, 2024. In tragic news, three individuals, including two young children, were found dead in an apartment in Kawasaki. Early this morning, a 4-year-old boy, a 5-year-old girl, and a 34-year-old man believed to be their father were discovered unconscious in the bathroom. They were rushed to a medical facility but were pronounced dead. A generator was found in the bathroom, indicating a possible carbon monoxide poisoning. The police are investigating the incident as a possible suicide.

Moving on to weather news, a heatwave alert has been issued for 34 prefectures, with the Kinki region expected to reach dangerous temperatures close to 40 degrees Celsius. As temperatures continue to rise in eastern and western Japan, it is crucial to take precautions against heatstroke. Avoid unnecessary outdoor activities and use air conditioning indoors without hesitation.

In other news, the Kagoshima Prefectural Police Headquarters will publicly announce measures to prevent the recurrence of information leaks and other incidents involving police officers. Following the arrest and prosecution of a former head of the Public Security Bureau in connection with an information leak case, the Kagoshima Prefectural Police will release preventive measures based on the results of a special inspection conducted by the National Police Agency. These measures are expected to include the establishment of a study group where frontline police officers can discuss organizational issues and directly convey their opinions to the headquarters.

Moving on, the largest puppet theater festival in Japan, the Iida Puppet Theater Festival, has begun in Iida City, Nagano. Approximately 270 puppet theater groups from Japan and abroad have gathered for this grand event, showcasing the artistry and creativity of puppetry.

In a solemn ceremony, the city of Nagaoka commemorated the 79th anniversary of the Nagaoka air raids, which claimed the lives of 1,488 people. The ceremony aimed to remember the victims and pray for peace, reflecting on the devastating consequences of war.

In a tragic incident in Shizuoka, three family members were found dead in their home in Kikugawa City. An 80-year-old couple and their daughter were fatally stabbed. The police have arrested their 27-year-old grandson on suspicion of killing his grandmother. The grandson was apprehended in Tottori City on July 30th and has been transferred to a police station in Shizuoka for further investigation.

In medical news, a new drug called 'Donanemab' for Alzheimer's disease is set to be approved in Japan, becoming the second drug of its kind to be authorized in the country. Developed by a major American pharmaceutical company, Donanemab directly targets the substances responsible for Alzheimer's disease, offering hope for patients and their families. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be partly cloudy with a maximum temperature of 34°C and a minimum temperature of 26°C. There is a 39% chance of overcast skies and a 0% chance of rain. The UV index is 8, indicating very high UV levels. The wind will be coming from the east-northeast at a speed of 11 km/h. Overall, it will be a warm and partly cloudy day in Tokyo.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
