---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-04-30 08:01:44 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-04-30.mp3
summary: "Imperial Succession Talks to Begin in May, Foreign National Found Dead in Saitama, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for April 30th, 2024."
duration: "188"
length: "03:08"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "10"
weather_sapporo_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_sapporo_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "21"
weather_tokyo_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_tokyo_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "21"
weather_nagoya_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_nagoya_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "23"
weather_osaka_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_osaka_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "18"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_fukuoka_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "26"
weather_naha_description: "Sunny"
weather_naha_image: "sunny.png"

proverb_id: "101"
proverb_ja: "下手な鉄砲も数打てば当たる"
proverb_hiragana: "へたなてっぽうもかずうてばあたる"
proverb_en: "Even a poor shot will hit the target with enough attempts."
proverb_lit: "A bad gun will hit the target if fired enough times."

currency_usd: "156.2"
currency_gbp: "196.1"
currency_eur: "167.5"
currency_cad: "114.4"
currency_aud: "102.7"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240430/k10014436471000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240430/k10014436681000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240430/k10014436691000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240430/k10014436701000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240430/k10014436551000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240430/k10014436571000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240430/k10014436561000.html"

news_story_title1: "皇位継承のあり方めぐり 5月中に衆参議長と各党代表者が協議へ"
news_story_title2: "埼玉 川口 外国人の男性死亡 外国人どうしのトラブルか"
news_story_title3: "インドネシアで大規模噴火 気象庁が津波の有無など調査中"
news_story_title4: "東北道で高速バス2台からむ事故 乗客3人けが 栃木 那須塩原"
news_story_title5: "栃木遺体遺棄事件 指示役とみられる容疑者 福岡行き航空券手配"
news_story_title6: "フィリピン 移動式レーダーを日本から新たに調達 引き渡し式典"
news_story_title7: "中国電力 島根原発2号機 再稼働は秋以降に延期へ"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on April 30th, 2024. In our first news story, discussions on the stable succession of the imperial throne are set to begin in May. The ruling and opposition parties have compiled their thoughts on the matter, and it is expected that talks will commence between the speakers of both the House of Representatives and the House of Councillors, as well as representatives from each party.

Moving on to our next story, a foreign national was found dead in a collective housing complex in Kawaguchi, Saitama on the evening of the 29th. The man was discovered lying on the ground, bleeding, and was later pronounced dead at the hospital. It is believed that he was attacked with a knife, and the police are investigating the incident as a dispute between foreign nationals. They are currently searching for a man who fled the scene.

Next, in Indonesia, a large-scale volcanic eruption occurred early in the morning of the 30th. The Japan Meteorological Agency is conducting investigations to determine the presence of a tsunami and the potential impact on Japan. As of 6:40 am, no significant changes in sea levels have been observed at monitoring points in Japan and overseas.

Moving back to Japan, a collision involving two high-speed buses occurred on the downline of the Tohoku Expressway in Nasushiobara, Tochigi in the early hours of the 30th. Three passengers were injured, but fortunately, they are conscious and there are no life-threatening injuries. The police are currently investigating the details of the accident.

In a separate incident in Tochigi, a suspect believed to be the mastermind behind the disposal of a couple's bodies was apprehended in Okinawa Prefecture. The 28-year-old suspect had arranged a flight ticket to Fukuoka, and the police are investigating the purpose of his travel and possible attempts to evade capture.

Shifting our focus to international news, the Philippines, which has been in conflict with China over territorial rights in the South China Sea, has recently acquired a new mobile radar system from Japan. The radar is capable of operation even in remote areas such as islands, and a handover ceremony took place on April 29th.

Lastly, the restart of the No. 2 reactor at the Shimane Nuclear Power Plant, planned for August this year by Chugoku Electric Power Company, is expected to be delayed until autumn. The decision to postpone the restart is due to the time-consuming safety measures being implemented at the plant. This information was obtained through interviews with relevant sources.

That concludes today's news report from Japan Daily News. Thank you for listening. And now for the weather. Today in Tokyo, the weather will be partly cloudy with a maximum temperature of 21°C and a minimum temperature of 19°C. There is a chance of light rain showers in the morning, but it will be mostly dry throughout the day. The humidity will be around 82% and there will be a light breeze with windspeeds of 21 km/h. Overall, it will be a pleasant day with a UV index of 2.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
