---
layout: post
title: "Japan Daily News"
date: 2024-04-20 08:26:42 +0900
file: https://archive.org/download/japandailynews/japandailynews_2024-04-20.mp3
summary: "Chiba Prefecture Conducts Survey on Isolated Settlements after Noto Peninsula Earthquake | Doctor Arrested on Bribery Charges in Tokyo Labor Accident Hospital, & more…"
description: "English news from Japan for April 20th, 2024."
duration: "192"
length: "03:12"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "japan, daily, news"
block: "no"
voices: "'Rachel' from ElevenLabs"

weather_sapporo_maxtemp: "8"
weather_sapporo_description: "Patchy rain nearby"
weather_sapporo_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_tokyo_maxtemp: "23"
weather_tokyo_description: "Partly Cloudy"
weather_tokyo_image: "cloudy1.png"

weather_nagoya_maxtemp: "24"
weather_nagoya_description: "Overcast"
weather_nagoya_image: "cloudy3.png"

weather_osaka_maxtemp: "24"
weather_osaka_description: "Overcast"
weather_osaka_image: "cloudy3.png"

weather_fukuoka_maxtemp: "18"
weather_fukuoka_description: "Patchy light drizzle"
weather_fukuoka_image: "rainy1.png"

weather_naha_maxtemp: "24"
weather_naha_description: "Cloudy"
weather_naha_image: "cloudy2.png"

proverb_id: "109"
proverb_ja: "昔取った杵柄"
proverb_hiragana: "むかしとったきねづか"
proverb_en: "Confident in skills learned in the past"
proverb_lit: "The handle of the pestle taken in the past."

currency_usd: "154.6"
currency_gbp: "192.3"
currency_eur: "164.7"
currency_cad: "112.2"
currency_aud: "99.1"

news_story_link1: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240420/k10014427791000.html"
news_story_link2: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240420/k10014427731000.html"
news_story_link3: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240420/k10014427981000.html"
news_story_link4: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240420/k10014427991000.html"
news_story_link5: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240420/k10014428081000.html"
news_story_link6: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240420/k10014427761000.html"
news_story_link7: "http://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20240420/k10014428051000.html"

news_story_title1: "千葉県 災害で孤立のおそれ 約500集落 能登半島地震受け調査"
news_story_title2: "収賄容疑で医師逮捕 “6年前から使用率が大幅増加”捜査関係者"
news_story_title3: "教科書検定で「未了」の中学歴史2点 漏えい確認されず合格"
news_story_title4: "高速道路舗装工事 契約と異なる使用済み材料を使用 NIPPO"
news_story_title5: "さいたま 住宅で男女2人死亡 80代母親が60代息子と無理心中か"
news_story_title6: "愛媛 大洲 「り災証明書」「り災届出証明書」申請受け付け開始"
news_story_title7: "米軍のヘリコプター2機 福島市の空き地に予防着陸 被害なし"

---

Hello and welcome to today's news from Japan Daily News on April 20th, 2024. In our first news story, Chiba Prefecture has conducted a survey to identify settlements at risk of isolation due to earthquakes and heavy rain. This comes after numerous settlements were isolated following the Noto Peninsula earthquake. The survey revealed that there are approximately 500 settlements at risk of isolation. Chiba Prefecture will now focus on strengthening emergency stockpiles and formulating measures to address this issue.

Moving on to our second news story, a doctor from Tokyo Labor Accident Hospital has been arrested on bribery charges. The investigation has revealed that the doctor received cash in exchange for prioritizing the use of medical devices from a local medical equipment manufacturer. The usage rate of these devices significantly increased since the start of the doctor's relationship with the manufacturer six years ago. The Tokyo Metropolitan Police Department is currently investigating the details of the doctor's relationship with the manufacturer.

Next, in an update on the textbook screening process, the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology has decided to pass two history textbooks that were initially marked as 'undecided' due to leaked information. The ministry confirmed that there was no evidence of leakage from the textbook companies and therefore approved the two textbooks.

In other news, a major road construction company, NIPPO, has been found to have used used materials instead of new asphalt in a highway construction project. Despite the contract specifying the use of new asphalt, NIPPO used recycled materials. The Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism has requested an investigation into the durability of the road surface. NIPPO has stated that they have reported the issue to the government and are considering making a public announcement.

Moving on to a tragic incident in Saitama, the bodies of an elderly mother in her 80s and her son in his 60s were found in their home. The police suspect a possible murder-suicide based on the circumstances at the scene and are conducting further investigations to determine the exact details.

In response to the earthquake that occurred on the 17th of this month, the city of Ozu in Ehime Prefecture has started accepting applications for 'disaster certificates' and 'disaster notification certificates.' These certificates are necessary for residents to receive public support following the earthquake, which caused damage such as falling roof tiles.

Lastly, two helicopters from the U.S. military made a precautionary landing in an empty lot in Fukushima City. The city announced that the crew and aircraft were unharmed, and no damage was reported in the surrounding area. The Tohoku Defense Bureau of the Ministry of Defense has verbally requested the U.S. military to provide prompt information regarding the incident.

That wraps up today's news from Japan Daily News. Stay tuned for more updates and news tomorrow. And now for the weather. The weather in Tokyo today is sunny with a maximum temperature of 23°C and a minimum temperature of 16°C.  Visit JapanDailyNews.com for the news, yen exchange rates, and a daily Japanese proverb.
